Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Overview, Selected Financial Information and Results of Operations. For a discussion of the risks presented by the COVID-19 pandemic to our results, see Risk Factors in Item 1A. 2   Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products The largest concentration of our sales and marketing forces is based in the United States and Europe. In recent years, we have expanded the commercialization and marketing of our products into other geographic territories, including China and Japan and other parts of Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. This expansion has occurred, and is expected to continue to occur, by establishing our own affiliates, by acquiring existing third-party businesses or product rights or by collaborating with third parties. See Business Relationships for our significant alliances. Whether we use our own sales and marketing forces or a third party’s services varies across these markets. Such use typically depends on several factors, including the nature of entry into the new market, the size of an opportunity and operational capabilities. Together with our collaborators, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In the United States, substantially all of our sales are to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, which are the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. We also market certain products through direct-to-consumer channels, including print, television and online media. For further discussion, see Government Regulation-Regulation in the United States-Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. In the Asia Pacific region, we also sell our products in partnership with other companies, including BeiGene, Daiichi Sankyo, KKC and Takeda. Our product sales to three large wholesalers, McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each individually accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years 2021, 2020 and 2019. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for 82%, 83% and 81% of worldwide gross revenues for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, in certain circumstances, by requiring letters of credit or obtaining credit insurance. 3   Our products are marketed around the world, with the United States as our largest market. The following chart shows our product sales by principal product, and the table below (dollar amounts in millions) shows product sales by geography for the years 2021, 2020 and 2019.   2021 2020 2019 Product Sales by Geography: U.S. $ 17,286 71 % $ 17,985 74 % $ 16,531 74 % ROW 7,011 29 % 6,255 26 % 5,673 26 % Total $ 24,297 100 % $ 24,240 100 % $ 22,204 100 %   4   ENBREL We market ENBREL, a tumor necrosis factor blocker, in the United States and Canada. ENBREL was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in indications for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, patients with chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy and patients with active psoriatic arthritis. Prolia We market Prolia in many countries around the world. Prolia contains the same active ingredient as XGEVA but is approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Prolia was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010. In the United States, it is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk of fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture; or in patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture. Otezla We market Otezla, a small molecule that inhibits PDE4, in many countries around the world. Otezla was acquired from BMS in November 2019 after their acquisition of Celgene. Otezla is an oral therapy approved for the treatment of adult patients with plaque psoriasis across all severities for whom phototherapy or systemic therapy is appropriate, patients with active psoriatic arthritis and patients with oral ulcers associated with Behçet’s disease. In Europe, Otezla is approved for second-line use in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis and for patients with oral ulcers associated with Behçet’s disease who are candidates for systemic therapy. XGEVA We market XGEVA in many countries around the world. XGEVA was launched in 2010 and is used primarily in the indication for prevention of SREs (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors and multiple myeloma. Neulasta We market Neulasta, a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta was launched in 2002 and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count in patients with certain types of cancer (nonmyeloid) who receive anticancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count. In 2015, the Neulasta Onpro kit became available in the United States. The Neulasta Onpro kit provides physicians the opportunity to initiate administration of Neulasta on the same day as chemotherapy, with drug delivery of the recommended dose of Neulasta at home the day after chemotherapy, thereby saving the patient a trip back to the doctor. Aranesp We market Aranesp primarily in the United States and Europe. It was launched in 2001 and is indicated to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. Aranesp is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in certain patients with nonmyeloid malignancies and when chemotherapy will be used for at least two months after starting Aranesp. Repatha We market Repatha, a PCSK9 inhibitor, in many countries around the world. Repatha was launched in 2015 and is indicated to reduce the risks of myocardial infarction, stroke and coronary revascularization in adults with established CV disease. Repatha is also indicated to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including HeFH; in pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with HeFH; and in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with HoFH. KYPROLIS We market KYPROLIS primarily in the United States and Europe. KYPROLIS was launched in 2012 and is indicated in combination with (i) dexamethasone, (ii) lenalidomide plus dexamethasone and (iii) DARZALEX plus dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior lines of therapy. It is also approved as a single agent for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one or more previous therapies. 5   Nplate We market Nplate in many countries around the world. Nplate was launched in 2008 and is indicated to treat thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic ITP who have had an insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins or splenectomy. Other Marketed Products We also market a number of other products in various markets worldwide, including MVASI, Vectibix, KANJINTI, EVENITY, EPOGEN, BLINCYTO, AMGEVITA, Aimovig, Parsabiv, NEUPOGEN, LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS, Sensipar/Mimpara, AVSOLA, RIABNI and TEZSPIRE. Patents The following table lists our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. Certain of the European patents are subjects of supplemental protection certificates that provide additional protection for the products in certain European countries beyond the dates listed in the table. See footnotes to the patent table below. One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry dates may fall under the same general subject matter and are not listed separately.  Product Territory General subject matter Expiration Enbrel ® (etanercept) U.S. Methods of treatment using aqueous formulations 6/8/2023 U.S. Formulations 10/19/2037 U.S. Fusion protein and pharmaceutical compositions 11/22/2028 U.S. DNA encoding fusion protein and methods of making fusion protein 4/24/2029 Prolia ® /XGEVA ® (denosumab) U.S. Methods of treatment 6/25/2022 U.S. Nucleic acids encoding RANKL antibodies and methods of producing RANKL antibodies 11/30/2023 U.S. RANKL antibodies, including sequences 2/19/2025 Europe RANKL antibodies, including sequences (1) 6/25/2022 Otezla ® (apremilast) U.S. Compositions and compounds 2/16/2028 U.S. Crystalline form 12/9/2023 U.S. Methods of treatment (2) 5/29/2034 Europe Compositions, compounds and methods of treatment (1) 3/20/2023 Aranesp ® (darbepoetin alfa) U.S. Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins 5/15/2024 KYPROLIS ® (carfilzomib) U.S. Compositions and compounds 12/7/2027 U.S. Methods of treatment 4/14/2025 U.S. Methods of making 5/8/2033 Europe Compositions, compounds and methods of treatment (1) 12/7/2025 Repatha ® (evolocumab) U.S. Antibodies (3) 10/25/2029 U.S. Methods of treatment 10/8/2030 Europe Compositions (1) 8/22/2028 Europe Methods of treatment 5/10/2032 Europe Formulation 5/3/2033 Nplate ® (romiplostim) U.S. Formulation 2/12/2028 Europe Thrombopoietic compounds (1) 10/22/2019 Europe Formulation 4/20/2027 Vectibix ® (panitumumab) Europe Human monoclonal antibodies to epidermal growth factor receptor (1) 5/5/2018 EVENITY ® (romosozumab-aqqg) U.S. Antibodies (3) 4/25/2026 U.S. Methods of treatment (3) 1/11/2029 U.S. Formulation and methods of using formulation 5/11/2031 Europe Antibodies (1) 4/28/2026 Europe Methods of treatment 4/18/2032 Europe Formulation and methods of using formulation 5/11/2031 BLINCYTO ® (blinatumomab) U.S. Pharmaceutical compositions and bifunctional polypeptides 4/6/2030 U.S. Method of administration 9/28/2027 Europe Bifunctional polypeptides (1) 11/26/2024 Europe Method of administration 11/6/2029  6    Product Territory General subject matter Expiration Aimovig ® (erenumab-aooe) U.S. CGRP receptor antibodies 5/17/2032 U.S. Methods of treatment 4/22/2036 Europe CGRP receptor antibodies (1) 12/18/2029 Europe Methods of treatment 8/10/2035 Parsabiv ® (etelcalcetide)  U.S. Compound and pharmaceutical composition 2/7/2031 U.S. Formulation 6/27/2034 U.S. Methods of making 8/9/2035 Europe Compound and pharmaceutical composition (1) 7/29/2030 Europe Formulation 6/27/2034 LUMAKRAS ® /LUMYKRAS™(sotorasib) U.S. Compounds and pharmaceutical compositions 5/21/2038 U.S. Crystalline form, pharmaceutical compositions and methods of treatment 5/20/2040 Europe Compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and methods of treatment 5/21/2038 TEZSPIRE ™ (tezepelumab-ekko) U.S. Polypeptides (3) 2/3/2029 U.S. Methods of treatment 8/23/2038 Europe Polypeptides 9/9/2028  (1) A European patent with this subject matter may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe, and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries: • denosumab - France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2025 • apremilast - Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom expiring in 2028 • carfilzomib - France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom expiring in 2030 • evolocumab - France, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2030 • romiplostim - France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024 • panitumumab - France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022 • romosozumab - France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2031 • blinatumomab - France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2029 • erenumab - France, Italy and Spain, expiring in 2033 • etelcalcetide - France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2031 (2) U.S. Patent No. 10,092,541 was held invalid by the New Jersey District Court. We disagree with the court’s holding and we are in the process of appealing this judgment. See Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Amgen Inc. vs. Sandoz Inc., et al. (3) A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States. 7   Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. A number of our marketed products are indicated for disease areas in which other products or treatments are currently available or are being pursued by our competitors through R&D activities. Additionally, some competitor-marketed products target the same genetic pathways as our recently launched marketed products or are currently in development. This competition could impact the pricing and market share of our products. We continue to pursue ways of increasing the value of our medicines through innovations during their life cycles, which can include expanding the disease areas for which our products are indicated and finding new methods to make the delivery of our medicines easier and less costly. Such activities can offer important opportunities for differentiation. For example, we market the Neulasta Onpro kit, which provides physicians the opportunity to initiate administration of the recommended dose of Neulasta on the same day as chemotherapy, with drug delivery at home the day after chemotherapy, thereby saving the patient a trip back to the doctor. We plan to continue pursuing innovation efforts to strengthen our competitive position. Such position may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience, delivery devices, price, reimbursement, access to and timing of market entry and patent position and expiration. Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have expired, and we face new and increasing competition, including from biosimilars and generics. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is “highly similar” to the original reference product. We have experienced adverse effects from biosimilar competition on our originator product sales. Companies have launched biosimilar versions of EPOGEN, NEUPOGEN and Neulasta and have approved biosimilars for ENBREL. Once multiple biosimilar versions of one of our originator products have launched, competition has intensified rapidly, resulting in greater net price declines for both reference and biosimilar products, and a greater effect on product sales. See also Government Regulation-Regulation in the United States-Approval of Biosimilars. Although competitor biosimilars compete on price, we believe many patients, providers and payers will continue to place high value on the reputation, supply reliability and safety of our products. As additional biosimilar competitors come to market, we will continue to leverage our global experience to distinguish against both branded and biosimilar competition. We also have our own biosimilar products both in the United States and outside of U.S. markets that are competing against branded and biosimilar versions of our competitors’ products. In 2019, Amgen launched MVASI, a biosimilar to Avastin, and KANJINTI, a biosimilar to Herceptin; and in 2018, Amgen launched AMGEVITA, a biosimilar to Humira in ex-U.S. markets. We have also received FDA approval of AMJEVITA, a biosimilar to Humira for the U.S. market, and plan to launch in the United States in January 2023. In 2020, we launched AVSOLA, a biosimilar to Remicade; and in January 2021, we launched RIABNI, a biosimilar to Rituxan. We expect additional biosimilar competition against both our branded and biosimilar products in the future across markets. Although most of our products are biologics, some are small molecule products. Because the FDA approval process permits generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product rather than having to conduct their own costly and time-consuming clinical trials, generic manufacturers can often develop and market their competing versions of our small molecule products at much lower prices. For example, following loss of exclusivity of patents directed to cinacalcet, the active ingredient in our small molecule calcimimetic Sensipar, we lost a significant share of the market and corresponding revenues in a very short period of time. See Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result in (i) increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents and/or (ii) reductions in the prices we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates. (As used in this document, the term clinical trials may include prospective clinical trials, observational studies, registries and other studies.) See Item 1A. Risk Factors- Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition and Item 1A. Risk Factors- We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future . 8   The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive.  Product Territory Competitor-marketed product Competitors ENBREL U.S. & Canada HUMIRA AbbVie U.S. Xeljanz Pfizer Inc. U.S. & Canada RINVOQ AbbVie Prolia U.S. & Europe Alendronate, raloxifene and zoledronate generics Various Otezla U.S. & Europe HUMIRA † AbbVie U.S. & Europe Cosentyx Novartis U.S. & Europe Taltz Lilly U.S. & Europe Tremfya Janssen (1) U.S. & Europe Skyrizi (2) AbbVie U.S. & Europe Methotrexate generics Various XGEVA U.S. & Europe Zoledronate generics Various Neulasta (3) U.S. UDENYCA Coherus BioSciences, Inc. U.S. Fulphila Mylan Institutional Inc. U.S. & Europe Filgrastim biosimilars Various Aranesp U.S. PROCRIT (4) Janssen (1) U.S. & Europe Epoetin alfa biosimilars Various Repatha U.S. & Europe PRALUENT Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.Sanofi KYPROLIS (5) U.S. VELCADE Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (6) U.S. & Europe REVLIMID Celgene (7) U.S. & Europe POMALYST/IMNOVID Celgene (7) U.S. & Europe DARZALEX Janssen (1) Nplate U.S. & Europe PROMACTA/REVOLADE Novartis   † Approved biosimilars available in Europe and Canada. (1) A subsidiary of J&J. (2) Dermatology only. (3) Other biosimilars under regulatory review in the United States and Europe. (4) PROCRIT competes with Aranesp in supportive cancer care and predialysis settings. (5) KYPROLIS is facing increased competition from several recently approved products. (6) A subsidiary of Takeda. (7) A subsidiary of BMS.  Reimbursement Sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. In many markets around the world, these payers, including government health systems, private health insurers and other organizations, remain focused on reducing the cost of healthcare; and their efforts have intensified as a result of rising healthcare costs, economic pressures and broader challenges generated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Drugs remain heavily scrutinized for cost containment. As a result, payers are becoming more restrictive regarding the use of biopharmaceutical products and are scrutinizing the prices of these products while requiring a higher level of clinical evidence to support the benefits such products bring to patients and the broader healthcare system. These pressures become intensified when our products become subject to competition, including from biosimilars. 9   In the United States, healthcare providers and other entities such as pharmacies and PBMs are reimbursed for covered services and products they deliver through both private-payer and government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. We provide negotiated rebates to healthcare providers, private payers, government payers and PBMs. In addition, we are required to (i) provide rebates or discounts on our products that are reimbursed through certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and (ii) provide discounts to qualifying healthcare providers under the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program. Both private and some government payers use formularies to manage access to and utilization of drugs. A drug’s inclusion and favorable positioning on a formulary are essential to ensure patients have access to a particular drug. Even when access is available, some patients abandon their prescriptions for economic reasons. Payers continue to institute cost reduction and containment measures that lower drug utilization and/or spending altogether and/or shift a greater portion of the costs to patients. Such measures include, but are not limited to, more-limited benefit plan designs, higher patient co-pays or coinsurance obligations, limitations on patients’ use of commercial manufacturer co-pay payment assistance programs (including through co-pay accumulator adjustment or maximization programs), stricter utilization management criteria before a patient may get access to a drug, higher-tier formulary placement that increases the level of patient out-of-pocket costs and formulary exclusion, which effectively encourages patients and providers to seek alternative treatments or pay 100% of the cost of a drug. The use of such measures by PBMs and insurers has continued to intensify and has thereby limited Amgen product usage and sales. Furthermore, during the past few years, many PBMs and insurers have consolidated, resulting in a smaller number of PBMs and insurers overseeing a large portion of total covered lives in the United States. As a result, PBMs and insurers have greater market power and negotiating leverage to mandate stricter utilization criteria and/or exclude drugs from their formularies in favor of competitor drugs or alternative treatments. In highly competitive treatment markets such as the markets for ENBREL, Otezla, Repatha and Aimovig, PBMs are also able to exert negotiating leverage by requiring incremental rebates from manufacturers in order for them to gain and/or maintain their formulary position. In addition to market actions taken by private and government payers in the United States, policy makers in both of the major U.S. political parties are pursuing policies to lower drug costs. Potential policies cover a wide range of areas, including allowing the importation of drugs from other countries; instituting IRP schemes, which would set the prices of certain drugs based on those available in other countries; implementing policies that in effect would require manufacturers to accept government-set prices for certain drugs, with price ceilings based on a domestic reference-pricing scheme; redesigning the Medicare Part D benefit so as to establish a cap on patient out-of-pocket costs, paired with new requirements that manufacturers cover a share of the costs of Part D drugs; stipulating penalties if drug price benchmarks rise faster than inflation; increasing transparency in drug pricing; and using third-party value assessments to determine drug prices. Examples of such policies include, but are not limited to, the previous Administration’s November 2020 interim final rule, which attempts to institute an MFN IRP model in Medicare Part B and a final rule instituting rebate reform in Medicare Part D. Both of the resulting rules are being challenged in court and have not yet been implemented. Further, although CMS withdrew the MFN IRP, policy makers continue to express strong interest in policies to address drug pricing. See Item 1A. Risk Factors- Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability . The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act signed into law on November 15, 2021, delays implementation of the rebate reform rule until 2026 and requires manufacturers of certain Part B–covered drugs packaged in single-use containers to give refunds to the government starting in 2023 for discarded amounts. Although the direction of drug-pricing-policy reforms remains unclear at this time, Congress is continuing to consider prescription-drug-pricing reforms, including legislative proposals for a number of the concepts discussed above (including a full repeal of the prior Administration’s Part D rebate reform rule). In many countries other than the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increasing budgetary constraints and/or difficulty in understanding the value of medicines, governments and payers in many countries are applying a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic-reference pricing, increases in mandates, incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage and government-mandated price cuts. In this regard, many countries have health technology assessment organizations that use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine prices, coverage and reimbursement of new therapies; and these organizations are expanding in both established and emerging markets. Many countries also limit coverage to populations narrower than those specified on our product labels or impose volume caps to limit utilization. We expect that countries will continue taking aggressive actions to seek to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also affect the extent to which countries are willing to approve new and innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies. The EU is currently undergoing a review and possible revision of its pharmaceutical legislation, scheduled to conclude at the end 2022. There is a risk that this review will lead to proposals that may reduce intellectual property protection for new products, as well as change the reimbursement and regulatory landscape in ways that are difficult to predict at this point. 10   The dynamics and developments discussed above create pressures on the pricing and potential usage of our products and on the industry. Given the diverse interests in play between payers, biopharmaceutical manufacturers, policy makers, healthcare providers and independent organizations, if and whether the parties involved can achieve alignment on the matters discussed above remain unclear, and the outcome of any such alignment is difficult to predict. We remain focused on pricing our products responsibly and delivering breakthrough treatments for unmet medical needs. Amgen is committed to working with the entire healthcare community to ensure continued innovation and to facilitate patient access to needed medicines. We do this by: • investing billions of dollars annually in R&D; • pricing our medicines to reflect the value they provide; • developing more affordable therapeutic choices in the form of high-quality and reliably supplied biosimilars; • partnering with payers to share risk and accountability for health outcomes; • providing patient support and education programs; • helping patients in financial need access our medicines; and • working with policy makers, patients and other stakeholders to establish a sustainable healthcare system with access to affordable care and in which patients and their healthcare professionals are the primary decision makers. See Item 1A. Risk Factors- Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability and Item 1A. Risk Factors- Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials Manufacturing We believe we are a leader in the manufacture of biologics and that our manufacturing capabilities represent a competitive advantage. The products we manufacture consist of both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics that are produced in living cells and that are inherently complex due to naturally occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Further, our expertise in the manufacture of biologics positions us well for leadership in the global biosimilars market. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties. We have been innovating our manufacturing facilities designed to extend our manufacturing advantage by optimizing our manufacturing network and/or by mitigating risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our products. For example, our licensed next-generation biomanufacturing plant operating in Singapore, and our recently FDA approved facility in West Greenwich, Rhode Island, incorporate multiple innovative technologies into a single facility. Next-generation biomanufacturing plants require smaller manufacturing footprints and offer greater environmental benefits, including reduced consumption of water and energy and lower levels of carbon emissions. Within such plants, the equipment is portable and smaller, which provides greater flexibility and speed in the manufacture of different medicines simultaneously. This enables Amgen to respond to changing demands for its medicines with increased agility. The Singapore site also has a plant that has been approved by several agencies, including the FDA and EMA, to produce small molecule drugs for commercial manufacturing. Our internal manufacturing network has commercial production capabilities for bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill, finish, tableting and device assembly. These activities are performed within the United States and its territories in our Puerto Rico, Rhode Island and California facilities as well as internationally in our Ireland, Netherlands and Singapore facilities. In addition, we use third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the capacity or capability of our commercial manufacturing network. To support our clinical trials, we manufacture product candidates primarily at our California facilities. We also use third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the capacity or capability of our overall clinical manufacturing network. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products. 11   Distribution We operate distribution centers in Puerto Rico, Kentucky, California and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products worldwide. Other In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, each of our manufacturing locations includes key manufacturing support functions such as quality control, process development, engineering, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation-Regulation in the United States-Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. Manufacturing Initiatives As discussed above, we have been expanding capacity and advancing new innovations with multiple ongoing projects. Our next-generation biomanufacturing plant at our West Greenwich, Rhode Island, campus, the first of its kind in the United States, received FDA approval in January 2022. This plant expands our capacity to manufacture certain products for U.S. and global markets, as we receive regulatory approval in those markets. We initiated projects in 2019 to expand our clinical and commercial manufacturing capabilities in Thousand Oaks, California, which we have completed. In August 2021, we initiated a project to build a new multi-product drug substance manufacturing facility in Holly Springs, North Carolina. The new plant will support both traditional stainless steel-fed batch manufacturing and next-generation single-use technologies, allowing flexibility in the production of multiple products in one plant. In November 2021, we broke ground for our newest biomanufacturing plant located in New Albany, Ohio. This final product assembly and packaging plant will support the growing demand for Amgen’s medicines in the United States and will use state-of-the-art technologies. See Item 1A. Risk Factors- Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Raw Materials and Medical Devices Certain raw materials, medical devices (including companion diagnostics) and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by and are the proprietary products of unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by means of inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors- We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. We perform various procedures to help authenticate the sources of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products; the procedures include verification of country of origin and are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform. To better ensure supply, Amgen has a risk mitigation strategy that uses a combination of methods, including multiple sources or backup inventory of critical raw materials. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of our ongoing business continuity efforts, we continue to closely monitor our inventory levels and have taken additional measures to mitigate against raw material supply interruption. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products. Government Regulation Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities. To clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. Compliance with these standards is complex, and failure to comply with any of these standards can result in significant implications. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of factors, including global regulatory implications, that can adversely impact our development and marketing of commercial products. 12   Regulation in the United States In the United States, the Public Health Service Act; the FDCA; and the regulations promulgated thereunder as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, promotion and distribution of our products in addition to the reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value to healthcare professionals and teaching hospitals. Clinical Development and Product Approval. Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky, and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are typically very long-approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable risk–benefit profile. We continue to work toward reducing cycle times by applying our expertise in human genetics and innovation in technology, clinical trials and real-world evidence. After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an IND with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program. • In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects. • In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side-effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a patient population larger than phase 1 but still relatively small, who have the disease or condition under study. • In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of our product candidates, compared to commonly used treatments, in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, reevaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk–benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of either a BLA for biologic products or a New Drug Application for small molecule products. We are not permitted to market or promote a new product until the FDA has approved our marketing application. Approval of Biosimilars . The ACA authorized the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the nonclinical-trial and clinical-trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be “highly similar” and to have no clinically meaningful differences with regard to safety, purity and potency. The relevance of demonstrating “similarity” is that in many cases, biosimilars can be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators, because risk–benefit has previously been established. To preserve incentives for future innovation, the law establishes a period of exclusivity for originators’ products, which in general prohibits biosimilars from gaining FDA approval based in part on reliance on or reference to the originator’s data in their application to the FDA for 12 years after initial FDA approval of the originator product. The law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. As part of the implementation of the abbreviated approval pathway for biosimilars, the FDA released a number of guidance documents, some of which remain in draft form. Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion . The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of drug products. Our product promotions for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA and the FDA’s implemented regulations and guidance. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses but is not limited to direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare-provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving electronic media. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a promotional context. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of the FDA’s advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Additionally, as described below, such failure may lead to additional liability under U.S. healthcare fraud and abuse laws. 13   Regulation of Manufacturing Standards . The FDA regulates and inspects the equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to granting approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to reinspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. Regulation of Combination Products . Combination products are defined by the FDA as products composed of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and/or drug and a device). Biologics/drugs and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well. Regulation outside the United States In EU countries as well as in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Canada, Australia and Japan, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. In the EU, there are currently two potential tracks for seeking marketing approval for a product not authorized in any EU member state: a decentralized procedure and a centralized procedure. In the decentralized procedure , identical applications for marketing authorization are submitted simultaneously to the national regulatory agencies. Regulatory review is led by one member state (the reference-member state), and its assessment-based on safety, quality and efficacy-is reviewed and approved (assuming there are no concerns that the product poses a serious risk to public health) by the other member states from which the applicant is seeking approval (the concerned-member states). The decentralized procedure leads to a series of single national approvals in all relevant countries. In the centralized procedure , which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single Marketing Authorisation Application to the EMA, which conducts an evaluation of the dossier, drawing upon its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the EMA’s CHMP adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final decision on granting of the marketing authorization. Even though the EC generally follows the CHMP’s opinion, it is not bound to do so. Subsequent commercialization is enabled by country-by-country reimbursement approval. In the EU, biosimilars are approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. As with the U.S. pathway, an applicant seeks and obtains regulatory approval for a biosimilar once the data exclusivity period for the original reference product has expired, relying in part on the data submitted for the originator product together with data evidencing that the biosimilar is “highly similar” with regard to quality, safety and efficacy to the original reference product authorized in the European Economic Area. Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have review processes and data requirements similar to those of the EU and in some cases can rely on prior marketing approval from U.S. or EU regulatory authorities. The regulatory process in these countries may include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements. In Asia Pacific, a number of countries such as China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan may require local clinical-trial data for bridging purposes as part of the drug registration process in addition to global clinical trials, which can add to overall drug development and registration timelines. In most of the Asian markets, registration timelines depend on marketing approval in the United States or the EU. In some markets in Asia, such as China, Indonesia and Thailand, regulatory timelines can be less predictable. The regulatory process may also include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements. Countries such as Australia and Japan have more-mature systems that would allow for submissions under more-competitive time frames. With regard to biosimilars, several of these countries have pathways to register biosimilars (e.g., Australia, India, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan), and biosimilar products are already present on the markets (e.g., Australia and South Korea). In some countries, such as Japan and those in the EU, medical devices may be subject to regulatory regimes whereby manufacturers must establish that their medical devices conform to essential requirements set out in the law for the particular device category. For example, in the EU, with limited exceptions, medical devices placed on the market must bear the Conformité Européenne marking to indicate their conformity with legal requirements. 14   Postapproval Phase After approval, we continue to monitor adverse events and product complaints reported following the use of our products through routine postmarketing surveillance and studies when applicable. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies as required by local regulations for individual cases and aggregate reports. We proactively monitor (according to good pharmacovigilance practices) and ensure the implementation of signal detection, assessment and the communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We also proactively monitor product complaints through our quality systems, which includes assessing our drug delivery devices for device complaints, adverse events and malfunctions. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Health regulators, including the FDA, have authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s life cycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products. Health regulators, including the FDA, also have authority both before and after approval to require that a company implement a risk management program for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each risk management program is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. In the United States, such a risk management program is known as a REMS; and we currently have REMSs for Prolia, Nplate and BLINCYTO. Other Regulation We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including antikickback laws and false-claims laws. Antikickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescribing of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False-claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as by the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under false-claims laws may also arise when violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying product (e.g., a violation regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim. On April 25, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations related to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access medicines. Additionally, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement that requires us to both maintain a corporate compliance program and undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future, our practices might be further challenged under antikickback or similar laws. The FCPA prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA arguably includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anticorruption laws and/or regulations. Failure by our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators to comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws and/or regulations could result in significant civil or criminal penalties. We are subject to various laws and regulations globally with regard to privacy and data protection. These laws and regulations involve the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. The legislative and regulatory environments regarding privacy and data protection are continually evolving and developing because these issues are subjects of increasing amounts of attention in countries globally. For example, we are subject to the EU’s GDPR, which became effective on May 25, 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which became effective on January 1, 2020 and China’s Personal Information Protection Law, which became effective on November 1, 2021. Other jurisdictions where we operate have enacted or proposed similar legislation and/or regulations. For example, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act and the Colorado Privacy Act are set to become effective on January 1, 2023, and July 1, 2023, respectively. Failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties. Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and regulations. See Reimbursement section above.  15   Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of serious illness. We capitalize on our strengths in human genetics, novel biology and protein engineering. We leverage our biologic expertise and seek to choose the optimal modality for a drug target and disease. And we use cutting-edge science and technology to study subtle biological mechanisms in search of therapies that will improve the lives of those who suffer from diseases. Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, other combination modalities or new modalities. We have reshaped our portfolio and have increasingly focused our efforts on human genetics when possible to enhance the likelihood of success. Since early 2021, COVID-19 global vaccination efforts have been under way to control the pandemic. However, uncertainty remains as to the length of time required for vaccination of a meaningful portion of the population and as to the efficacy of such vaccinations on the trajectory of the pandemic. Challenges to vaccination efforts, new variants and other causes of virus spread may require governments to issue additional restrictions and/or order shutdowns in various geographies. As a result, we expect to see continued volatility for at least the duration of the pandemic as governments respond to current local conditions. With regard to our drug development activities, we are continuously monitoring COVID-19 infection rates, including changes from new variants; we are working to mitigate effects on future study enrollment in our clinical trials; and we are evaluating the impact in all countries where clinical trials occur. We remain focused on supporting our active clinical sites in their providing care for patients and in our providing investigational drug supply. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our R&D expenses were $4.8 billion, $4.2 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. We have major R&D centers in Thousand Oaks and San Francisco, California; Iceland; and the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties. Our clinical trial activities are conducted by both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number and diversity of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue opening clinical sites and enrolling patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation-Regulation in the United States-Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors- We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas in which we have products or in which we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is greatly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to a product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of a product to the market will be important to our competitive position. In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R&D. The following table shows a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 8, 2022, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. (The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) The information in this section does not include other, nonregistrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. We may conduct nonregistrational clinical trials for various reasons, including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with regard to the use of products. 16    Molecule Investigational indication Phase 3 programs AMJEVITA Interchangeability Bemarituzumab GEJ adenocarcinoma BLINCYTO Ph-negative B-cell precursor Acute lymphoblastic leukemia EVENITY Male osteoporosis KYPROLIS Weekly dosing for relapsed multiple myeloma Nplate Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia Otezla Genital psoriasis Repatha Cardiovascular disease TEZSPIRE Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polypsSevere asthma ABP 654 Investigational biosimilar to STELARA (ustekinumab) ABP 938 Investigational biosimilar to EYLEA (aflibercept) ABP 959 Investigational biosimilar to SOLIRIS (eculizumab) Phase 2 programs Efavaleukin alfa Systemic lupus erythematosusUlcerative colitis LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS Advanced colorectal cancer NSCLC monotherapy Other solid tumors with KRAS G12C mutations Olpasiran Cardiovascular disease Ordesekimab Celiac disease Otezla Palmoplantar pustulosis Rozibafusp alfa Systemic lupus erythematosus Tarlatamab Small cell lung cancer TEZSPIRE Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseaseChronic spontaneous urticaria AMG 451/KHK 4083 Atopic dermatitis Phase 1 programs Acapatamab Prostate cancer Pavurutamab Multiple myeloma Tarlatamab Small-cell lung cancer AMG 104 Asthma AMG 119 Small-cell lung cancer AMG 133 Obesity AMG 176 Hematologic malignancies AMG 193 Solid tumors AMG 199 Metastatic GEJ cancer AMG 256 Solid tumors AMG 330 Acute myeloid leukemia AMG 340 Prostate cancer AMG 404 Solid tumors AMG 427 Acute myeloid leukemia AMG 506 Solid tumors AMG 509 Prostate cancer AMG 609 Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis AMG 650 Solid tumors AMG 994 Solid tumors  17    Phase 3 Clinical trials investigate the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of our product candidates, compared to commonly used treatments, in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. Phase 2 Clinical trials investigate side-effect profiles and efficacy of product candidates in a larger patient population than phase 1, but still relatively small, who have the disease or condition under study. Phase 1 Clinical trials investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of product candidates in a small number of human subjects.  Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes As of February 2, 2021, we had 13 phase 3 programs. As of February 8, 2022, we continued to have 13 phase 3 programs, as regulatory approvals were received for three programs, four programs initiated phase 3 studies and one program was terminated. These changes are set forth in the following table.  Molecule Investigational indication Program change LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS NSCLC with KRAS G12C mutations Approved by the FDA and conditional marketing approval by the EC Otezla Mild-to-moderate psoriasis Approved by the FDA RIABNI Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Approved by the FDA AMJEVITA Interchangeability Initiated phase 3 study Bemarituzumab GEJ adenocarcinoma Initiated phase 3 study BLINCYTO Ph-negative B-cell precursor Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Initiated phase 3 study TEZSPIRE Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps Initiated phase 3 study Otezla COVID-19 Terminated  Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information The following table describes our composition-of-matter patents that have been issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication in the United States or the EU. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications in the United States or the EU but that are currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications have been previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Patents.  Molecule Territory General subject matter Estimated expiration* Bemarituzumab U.S. Polypeptides 2029 Europe Polypeptides 2029  * Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents, which may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. The estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and thereby extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.  Phases 3 and 2 Program Descriptions The following provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials. AMJEVITA AMJEVITA is a biosimilar to HUMIRA, which is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits binding of TNF-alpha to cell surface TNF receptor / TNF-alpha. Bemarituzumab Bemarituzumab is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits FGFR2b. It is being investigated for the treatment of advanced GEJ adenocarcinoma. In April 2021, Amgen announced that the FDA had granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for bemarituzumab. 18   BLINCYTO BLINCYTO is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 BiTE ® molecule. It is being investigated in newly diagnosed adults age 40 and older with Ph negative B-Cell precursor ALL. Efavaleukin alfa Efavaleukin alfa is an IL-2 mutein Fc fusion protein. It is being investigated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus and ulcerative colitis. EVENITY EVENITY is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. It is being evaluated as a treatment for male osteoporo sis. EVENITY is being developed in collaboration with UCB. KYPROLIS KYPROLIS is a small molecule proteasome inhibitor. It is being investigated for weekly dosing in combinations with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for relapsed multiple myeloma. In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved the expansion of the KYPROLIS prescribing information to include its use in combination with DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj) and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three lines of therapy. LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS  LUMAKRAS is a KRAS G12C small molecule inhibitor. It is being investigated as treatment for a variety of solid tumors, including NSCLC, colorectal cancer and other solid tumor cancers. In May 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved LUMAKRAS for the treatment of adult patients with KRAS G12C– mutated locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC, as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. In November 2021, we announced that the EMA’s CHMP had adopted a positive opinion and recommended conditional marketing authorization of LUMYKRAS, known as LUMAKRAS in the United States, for the treatment of adults with advanced NSCLC with KRAS G12C mutation and who have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy. In January 2022, we announced that the EC had granted conditional marketing authorization for LUMYKRAS for the treatment of adults with advanced NSCLC with KRAS G12C mutation and who have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy. We also announced that LUMAKRAS had been approved in Japan for the treatment of KRAS G12C-mutated positive, unresectable, advanced and/or recurrent NSCLC that has progressed after systemic anticancer therapy. Nplate Nplate is a TPO-RA. It is being investigated for the treatment of CIT. Olpasiran Olpasiran is an siRNA that lowers lipoprotein(a), also known as Lp(a). It is being investigated in phase 2 for the treatment of atherosclerotic CV disease. Ordesekimab Ordesekimab is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of IL-15. It is being investigated for the treatment of celiac disease and is being developed in collaboration with Provention Bio, Inc. Otezla Otezla is a small molecule that inhibits PDE4. It is being investigated in phase 3 studies for the treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe genital psoriasis. It is being investigated in a phase 2 study for treatment of palmoplantar pustulosis. In February 2021, we announced the submission of an sNDA to the FDA for the treatment of adults with mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy.  19   In May 2021, we announced that the FDA had accepted for review our sNDA for the treatment of adults with mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy. The FDA had set a PDUFA action date of December 19, 2021. In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved the expanded indication for Otezla for the treatment of adult patients with plaque psoriasis, who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy, across all severities. Repatha Repatha is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits PCSK9. It is being investigated as a treatment for atherosclerotic CV disease in high-risk patients with high LDL-C without prior heart attack or stroke. Rozibafusp alfa Rozibafusp alfa is a novel antibody-peptide conjugate that simultaneously blocks the BAFF and ICOSL activity. It is being investigated as a treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus. Tarlatamab Tarlatamab is an HLE anti- DLL3 x anti-CD3 BiTE ® molecule. It is being investigated for the treatment of small cell lung cancer. TEZSPIRE TEZSPIRE is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of thymic stromal lymphopoietin. It is being evaluated in phase 3 studies as a treatment for severe asthma and chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. It is also being investigated in phase 2 studies as a treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic spontaneous urticaria. TEZSPIRE is being developed jointly in collaboration with AstraZeneca. In May 2021, we announced that our partner AstraZeneca had submitted a BLA to the FDA for tezepelumab, a potential first-in-class medicine in severe asthma. In July 2021, we announced that the FDA had accepted a BLA and granted Priority Review of TEZSPIRE for the treatment of asthma. In December 2021, we announced that the FDA had approved Amgen and AstraZeneca's TEZSPIRE for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older with severe asthma. In January 2022, we announced that TEZSPIRE is available for shipment to wholesalers in the United States. AMG 451/KHK4083 AMG 451/KHK4083 is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits OX-40. It is being investigated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. AMG 451/KHK4083 is being developed in collaboration with KKC. ABP 654 ABP 654, a biosimilar candidate to STELARA (ustekinumab), is a monoclonal antibody that inhibits IL-12 and IL-23. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for biosimilarity to STELARA. The reference-product primary conditions are psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn’s disease. ABP 938 ABP 938, a biosimilar candidate to EYLEA, is a VEGFR Fc fusion protein. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for biosimilarity to EYLEA. The reference-product primary conditions are wet AMD, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion, diabetic macular edema and diabetic retinopathy. ABP 959 ABP 959, a biosimilar candidate to SOLIRIS, is a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to the complement protein C5. It is being investigated in a phase 3 study for biosimilarity to SOLIRIS. The reference-product primary conditions are PNH and aHUS. 20   Business Relationships From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed-product base. These arrangements generally provide for nonrefundable, upfront license fees, development and commercial-performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature. Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of a business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information. BeiGene, Ltd. On January 2, 2020, we acquired a 20.5% stake in BeiGene for approximately $2.8 billion in cash as part of a collaboration to expand our oncology presence in China. Under the collaboration, BeiGene began selling XGEVA in 2020, BLINCYTO in 2021 and KYPROLIS in early 2022 in China, and Amgen shares profits and losses equally during the initial product-specific commercialization periods; thereafter, product rights may revert to Amgen, and Amgen will pay royalties to BeiGene on sales in China of such products for a specified period. In addition, we jointly develop a portion of our oncology portfolio with BeiGene, which shares in global R&D costs by providing cash and development services of up to $1.25 billion. Upon regulatory approval, BeiGene will assume commercialization rights in China for a specified period, and Amgen and BeiGene will share profits equally until certain of these product rights revert to Amgen. Upon return of the product rights, Amgen will pay royalties to BeiGene on sales in China for a specified period. For product sales outside China, Amgen will also pay royalties to BeiGene. Novartis We are in a collaboration with Novartis to jointly develop and commercialize Aimovig. On January 31, 2022, concurrent with the settlement of the previously disclosed litigation between Amgen and Novartis we modified the terms of the collaboration. See Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Arrangement through December 31, 2021 In the United States, Amgen and Novartis jointly developed and collaborated on the commercialization of Aimovig. Amgen, as the principal, recognized product sales of Aimovig in the United States, shared U.S. commercialization costs with Novartis and paid Novartis a significant royalty on net sales in the United States. Novartis held global co-development rights and exclusive commercial rights outside the United States and Japan for Aimovig (the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights). Novartis paid Amgen double-digit royalties on net sales of the product in the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights territories and funded a portion of global R&D expenses. In addition, Novartis was required to make a payment to Amgen of up to $100 million if certain commercial and expenditure thresholds were achieved with respect to Aimovig in the United States. Arrangement after January 1, 2022 Pursuant to the amendment effective January 1, 2022, Novartis retains the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights and will continue to pay double-digit royalties on net sales in the ex-U.S. Novartis Rights territories. In the United States, Novartis will no longer collaborate with Amgen, share Aimovig commercialization costs or pay milestones and Amgen will no longer pay royalties to Novartis on sales of Aimovig. Amgen and Novartis will continue to share development expenses worldwide . Amgen manufactures and supplies Aimovig worldwide. 21   DaVita Inc. In January 2017, we entered into a six-year supply agreement with DaVita, which superseded the previously existing, seven-year supply agreement that commenced in 2012. Pursuant to the 2017 agreement, we supply EPOGEN and Aranesp in amounts necessary to meet specified annual percentages of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. Such percentages vary during the term of the agreement, but in each year are at least 90%. The agreement expires in December 2022. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party. For financial information about our significant collaborative arrangements, see Part IV-Note 8, Collaborations, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Human Capital Resources Overview Amgen’s approach to human capital resource management starts with our mission to serve patients. We strive to serve patients by transforming the promise of science and biotechnology into therapies that have the power to restore health or save lives. The way we approach our business is guided by our Amgen Values:  Amgen Values Be Science-Based Compete Intensely and Win Create Value for Patients, Staff and Stockholders Be Ethical Trust and Respect Each Other Ensure Quality Work in Teams Collaborate, Communicate and Be Accountable   Our staff are also guided by the Company’s Code of Conduct, which is designed to help every person who does business on our behalf worldwide (including all staff, management, consultants, contract workers and temporary workers) to understand what is expected of them. Our industry exists in a complex regulatory and reimbursement environment. The unique demands of our industry, together with the challenges of running an enterprise focused on the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization of innovative medicines, requires a highly engaged and committed workforce. As of December 31, 2021, Amgen had approximately 24,200 staff members in over 50 countries, and we have had relatively low global turnover rates. We also supplement our workforce with independent contractors, contingent workers and temporary workers, as needed. Outside of the United States, some of our employees are represented by unions or works councils. We consider our staff relations to be good, supported by regular assessments of staff engagement surveys on a wide range of topics (including engagement in the COVID-19 environment, diversity, inclusion and belonging, and maintaining a culture of compliance). We discuss the results of these surveys with our workforce and our Board of Directors. Compensation, Benefits and Development Our approach to employee compensation and benefits is designed to deliver cash, equity and benefit programs that are competitive with those offered by leading companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries to attract, motivate and retain talent with a focus on encouraging performance, promoting accountability and adherence to Company values and alignment with the interests of the Company’s shareholders. Our base pay program aims to compensate staff members relative to the value of the contributions of their role, which takes into account the skills, knowledge and abilities required to perform each position, as well as the experience brought to the job. We also provide annual incentive programs to reward our staff in alignment with achievement of Company-wide goals that are established annually and designed to drive aspects of our strategic priorities that support and advance our strategy across our Company. The majority of our staff members are also eligible for the grant of equity awards under our long-term incentive program that are designed to align the experience of these staff with that of our shareholders. All staff also participate in a regular performance measurement process through which staff receive performance and development feedback, and pay is aligned to performance. To support the development of our staff, we provide a variety of programs, including leadership development programs, virtual instructor-led courses and self-paced learning options. 22   Our benefit programs are also generally broad-based, promote health and overall well-being and emphasize saving for retirement. All regular U.S. staff members are eligible to participate in the same core health and welfare and retirement savings plans. Other U.S. employee benefits include medical plans, dental plans, adoption assistance, paid parental leave programs, access to childcare, employee assistance programs, employee stock purchase plan, flexible spending accounts, life, long-term care and business travel accident insurance, short and long-term disability benefits, wellness benefits and work-life resources and referrals. Comparable programs and benefits are available globally, with the same health and well-being intent, consistent with statutory requirements. Our Compensation and Management Development Committee provides oversight of our compensation plans, policies and programs. Safety and Wellness and Our Response to COVID-19 Creating a safe and healthy workplace for our staff is a priority at Amgen. Our goal is to have a world class safety record through safety leadership, risk management practices and integrating safety throughout our business processes. To foster our safety culture, we implement a comprehensive safety program, driving to understand and mitigate the root cause of safety incidents and manage and control variability. We use leading indicators to assess the effectiveness of our safety programs and make course corrections as needed. Additionally, we perform formal executive management review of functional safety performance for Operations, Global Commercial Operations and R&D on a quarterly basis with a focus on identifying early signals and taking action to drive continuous improvement. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of our commitment to work to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees, for 2020 and much of 2021, we have activated our applicable business continuity plans, including having those of our employees who were able to work from home to do so, and for employees returning to the workplace and the field, we took additional safety measures, including implementing occupancy limits, restricting business travel, providing and requiring the use of personal protective equipment, temperature screening and COVID-19 testing to access our workplaces. Staff member access to our facilities has been in accordance with applicable government health and safety protocols and guidance issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in 2021 we required staff members in the United States and Puerto Rico to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. 1 In the fourth quarter of 2021, we enabled our U.S. based workforce to return to the workplace for work that benefits from face-to-face interactions, while maintaining appropriate safety measures to ensure staff well-being. This approach intentionally combines the benefits of remote and in-person working at Amgen for the future as COVID-19 restrictions ease around the globe. We will continue to learn and adapt this approach as needed for the future. Our Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee provides general oversight of our safety programs and initiatives, while our Board of Directors, as a whole, has overseen our specific responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging We believe that a diverse and inclusive culture fosters innovation, which supports our ability to serve patients. Further, we also believe our global presence is strengthened by having a workforce that reflects the diversity of the patients we serve. It is with these beliefs in mind that we have continued to strengthen and grow our culture of diversity, inclusion and belonging. Our internal efforts include, in 2019, establishing a Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Council chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. In 2020, we implemented a global unconscious-bias training program, and we launched an ongoing learning journey with tools and resources that guides staff on the role they play in creating diversity, inclusion and belonging throughout the organization. Each of Amgen’s ERGs is sponsored by an executive leader who reports to the CEO. We are leveraging our ERGs to represent and support the diversity of Amgen staff, while also providing opportunities to Amgen’s business and the community. 1 The vaccination requirement did not apply to staff who were unable to receive a COVID-19 vaccine because of qualifying religious or medical reasons. 23    Employee Resource Groups Amgen Asian Association (AAA) Amgen Black Employee Network (ABEN) Ability Bettered through Leadership and Education (ABLE), a resource group for those with disabilities, visible and invisible, including those conditions also experienced by the patients that Amgen serves. Amgen Early Career Professionals (AECP) Amgen Indian Subcontinent Network (AISN) Amgen Latin Employee Network (ALEN) Amgen LGBTQ and Allies Network (PRIDE) Amgen Veterans Employees Network (AVEN) Women Empowered to be Exceptional (WE2) Women in Information Systems Enrichment (WISE) Amgen International Network (AIN)  For 2021, to tangibly deepen and drive our diversity, inclusion and belonging activities enterprise-wide and actively communicate our culture of belonging to all staff, we established an annual diversity, inclusion and belonging goal for leaders at executive director and above levels to establish, document and execute diversity, inclusion and belonging action plans, with a target goal of 75% participation, which we achieved and exceeded in 2021. In areas of underrepresentation, we develop plans with a goal of bringing our representation in line with availability. We engage in outreach efforts to attract, retain and advance more women and minorities in our workforce. For example, we have worked to enhance our diverse candidate recruiting pool by developing relationships with organizations that can serve as a source of diverse candidates, such as the National Black MBA Association and National Sales Network, as well as historically black colleges and universities. In 2021, a fellowship program between Amgen and Howard University was established to expand the talent pool and diversify ranks in research and development. Additionally, at the end of 2020, we became a founding member of OneTen, a coalition of the world’s largest, best-known companies, that aims to hire one million Black Americans (with a specific focus on those without four-year college degrees) into good-paying, family-sustaining jobs over the next ten years. As a member of OneTen, Amgen is taking a leadership role in the greater Los Angeles region, where the company is headquartered, to help expand the coalition organizations that share our desire to offer opportunities to diverse talent. Other examples of actions that we are taking in this area include investment and participation in the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (a global organization focused on development and business networking for women in healthcare) and the UCLA Anderson School of Management leadership programs for women and underrepresented talent. Our 2020 Consolidated EEO-1 Report can be viewed on our website at www.amgen.com (the website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing). In 2021, our Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee provided oversight of our policies, programs and initiatives focusing on workforce diversity and inclusion. In 2022, oversight of diversity, inclusion and belonging shifted to the Compensation and Management Development Committee, which also provides oversight of our human capital management. Information about Our Executive Officers The executive officers of the Company as of February 16, 2022, are set forth below. Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 59, has served as a director of the Company since 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company’s President since 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since 2012. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2007 to 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bradway was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London, where, beginning in 2001, he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe. Mr. Bradway has been a director of The Boeing Company, an aerospace company and manufacturer of commercial airplanes, defense, space and securities systems, since 2016. He has served on the board of trustees of the University of Southern California since 2014. From 2011 to 2017, Mr. Bradway was a director of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a transportation company. 24   Mr. Murdo Gordon, age 55, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations, in 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gordon was Chief Commercial Officer at BMS, a pharmaceutical company, from 2016 to 2018. Mr. Gordon served as Head of Worldwide Markets at BMS from 2015 to 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Gordon served in a variety of leadership roles at BMS for more than 25 years. Mr. Jonathan P. Graham, age 61, became Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2019. Mr. Graham joined the Company in 2015. From 2015 to 2019, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Amgen, from 2006 to 2015, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Danaher Corporation. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Graham was Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy, at General Electric Company (GE). Prior to GE, Mr. Graham was a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP. Mr. Peter H. Griffith, age 63, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2020. Mr. Griffith joined the Company in 2019 as Executive Vice President, Finance. Prior to joining Amgen, Mr. Griffith was President of Sherwood Canyon Group, LLC, a private equity firm. From 1997 to 2019, Mr. Griffith was a partner at EY, an accounting and professional services firm, and served in a variety of senior leadership roles, with his last position being Global Vice Chair, Corporate Development. Prior to EY, Mr. Griffith was a Managing Director and head of the investment banking division of Wedbush Securities Inc. Ms. Nancy A. Grygiel, age 54, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in 2020. Ms. Grygiel joined the Company in 2015. From 2016 to 2020, Ms. Grygiel was Vice President, Compliance. Prior to joining Amgen, from 2011 to 2015, Ms. Grygiel served as Vice President, Compliance, Corporate & International, at Allergan, Inc. (Allergan). Prior to Allergan, Ms. Grygiel held several management positions at Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Ms. Lori A. Johnston, age 57, became Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in 2019. From 2016 to 2019, Ms. Johnston served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From 2012 to 2016, Ms. Johnston was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Celanese Corporation (Celanese). Prior to Celanese, Ms. Johnston served in a series of progressive leadership roles at Amgen from 2001 to 2012, with her last position being Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Johnston held human resources and other positions at Dell Inc. Ms. Rachna Khosla, age 49, became Senior Vice President, Business Development, in 2021. Ms. Khosla joined the Company in 2013 as Corporate Development Director. From 2016 to 2018, Ms. Khosla was Executive Director, Business Development, and from 2018 to 2021, was Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Khosla was a Director at Lazard Ltd. (Lazard) responsible for healthcare mergers and acquisitions. Prior to Lazard, Ms. Khosla had various roles at Credit Suisse Group AG, Sanofi Aventis, Aventis Capital, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., and Salomon Brothers, Inc. Dr. David M. Reese, age 59, became Executive Vice President, R&D, in 2018. Dr. Reese joined the Company in 2005 and has held leadership roles in development, medical sciences and discovery research. Dr. Reese was Senior Vice President, Translational Sciences and Oncology, from 2017 to 2018 and Senior Vice President, Translational Sciences, from 2015 to 2017. Prior to joining Amgen, Dr. Reese was director of Clinical Research at the Breast Cancer International Research Group from 2001 to 2003 and a cofounder, president and chief medical officer of Translational Oncology Research International, a not-for-profit academic clinical research organization, from 2003 to 2005. Dr. Reese previously served on the faculty at UCLA and the University of California, San Francisco. Mr. Esteban Santos, age 54, became Executive Vice President, Operations, in 2016. Mr. Santos joined the Company in 2007 as Executive Director, Manufacturing Technologies. From 2008 to 2013, Mr. Santos held a number of Vice President roles at the Company in engineering, manufacturing, site operations and drug product. From 2013 to 2016, Mr. Santos was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Santos served as Site General Manager of J&J’s Cordis operation in Puerto Rico. Prior to J&J, Mr. Santos held several management positions in GE’s industrial and transportation businesses. Geographic Area Financial Information For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Part IV-Note 3, Revenues and Note 11, Property, plant and equipment, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 25   Investor Information Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected without charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. (These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)   Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties our business faces. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. SUMMARY Risks Related to Economic Conditions and Operating a Global Business, Including During the COVID-19 Pandemic • The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. • A breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, network-connected control systems and/or our data, interrupt the operation of our business and/or affect our reputation. • Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Risks Related to Government Regulations and Third-Party Policies • Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. • Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. • The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. • Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. Risks Related to Competition • Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition. • Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in current and future intellectual property litigation. • We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future. • Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and at one free-standing dialysis clinic business and consolidation of private payers may negatively affect our business. 26   Risks Related to Research and Development • We may not be able to develop commercial products despite significant investments in R&D. • We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. • Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. • Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. • Some of our pharmaceutical pipeline and our commercial product sales rely on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of our products. • Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. Risks Related to Operations • We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials. • We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. • Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. • Our business and operations may be negatively affected by the failure, or perceived failure, of achieving our environmental, social and governance objectives. • The effects of global climate change and related natural disasters could negatively affect our business and operations. General Risk Factors • Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. • Our stock price is volatile. • We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.  RISKS RELATED TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND OPERATING A GLOBAL BUSINESS, INCLUDING DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. The novel coronavirus identified in late 2019, SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease known as COVID-19, is an ongoing global pandemic that has resulted in public and governmental efforts to contain or slow the spread of the disease, including widespread shelter-in-place orders, social distancing interventions, quarantines, travel restrictions and various forms of operational shutdowns. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting measures implemented in response to the pandemic are adversely affecting, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, our business (including our R&D, clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development and sales activities), the business activities of our suppliers, customers, third-party payers and our patients. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval ; see also We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications . Due to the pandemic and these measures and their effects, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, unpredictable reductions in demand for certain of our products, exacerbated by COVID-19 surges resulting in repeated shutdowns and/or disruptions in certain geographies. Federal, state and local, and international governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 also have resulted in the cancellation or delay of diagnostic, elective, specialty and other procedures and 27   appointments to avoid non-essential patient exposure to medical environments and potential infection with COVID-19 and to focus limited resources and personnel capacity toward the treatment of COVID-19. For example, an NPR/Harvard poll in 2021 found that, with hospitals crowded from COVID-19, one in five U.S. households has had to delay care for serious illnesses. These measures and challenges will likely continue to varying degrees for the duration of the pandemic and have significantly reduced patient access to, and administration of, certain of our drugs. For example, Prolia requires administration by a healthcare provider in doctors’ offices or other healthcare settings that are affected by COVID-19. The U.S. label for Prolia instructs healthcare professionals who discontinue Prolia to transition the patient to an alternative antiresorptive, including oral treatments that do not require administration by a healthcare provider. Further, as a result of COVID-19, oncology patients, in consultation with their doctors, may be selecting therapies that are less immunosuppressive or therapies that do not require administration in a hospital setting, potentially adversely affecting sales of certain of our products. Also, new patients have been, and are expected to continue to be, less likely to be diagnosed and/or to start therapeutics during the pandemic, and these effects, together with the lower treatment rates during the pandemic, have had, and are expected to continue to have, a cumulative negative effect on the commercial performance of our business. The decrease in diagnoses over the course of the pandemic has suppressed the volume of new patients starting treatment, which we expect to continue to impact our business. Once the pandemic subsides, we anticipate there could be a backlog of patients seeking appointments with physicians relating to a variety of medical conditions, and as a result, patients seeking treatment with certain of our products may have to navigate lower provider capacity, and this lower provider capacity could have a continued adverse effect on our sales following the opening up of various geographies and/or the end of the pandemic. Further, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may result in long-term shifts in preferences among healthcare professionals and patients toward treatments that do not require administration by healthcare professionals or visits to medical facilities. As the pandemic continues, and if conditions worsen or if the duration of the pandemic extends significantly, we expect to experience additional adverse effects on our development, operational and commercial activities, customer purchases and our collections of accounts receivable. It remains uncertain the degree to which these adverse effects would impact our future operational and commercial activities, customer purchases and our collections as conditions begin to improve. There was a resurgence in COVID-19 infections in numerous jurisdictions in 2021, resulting in the reinstatement of stricter restrictions and shutdowns in a number of jurisdictions, including in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. It is expected that the pandemic will continue to ebb and flow, with different jurisdictions having higher levels of infections than others over the course of the pandemic. New variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus have emerged, including the delta and omicron variants, and have been shown to be present in many geographies and appear to spread more easily and quickly than other variants. Further, although some studies suggest that antibodies generated with currently authorized vaccines may be effective against these variants, it remains uncertain whether currently available vaccines will retain their efficacy against future variants of the virus. Further, even while vaccine booster shots are available for certain patients, persistent vaccine hesitancy may result in under-vaccinated populations which may prolong the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to disrupt the availability of healthcare services to the patients we serve. Jurisdictions may implement, continue or reinstate border closures, impose or reimpose prolonged quarantines and further restrict travel and business activity. These measures could significantly affect our ability to support our operations and customers and the ability of our employees to get to their workplaces to discover, study, develop and produce our product candidates and products, disrupt the movement of our products through the supply chain, and further prevent or discourage patients from participating in our clinical trials, seeking healthcare services and the administration of certain of our products. The increased availability of remote working arrangements in response to the COVID-19 pandemic has expanded the pool of companies that can compete for our employees and employment candidates. Further, in connection with the global outbreak and spread of COVID-19 and in an effort to increase the wider availability of needed medical products, we or our suppliers may elect to, or governments may require us or our suppliers to, allocate manufacturing capacity (for example pursuant to the U.S. Defense Production Act) in a way that adversely affects our regular operations, customer relationships and financial results. In the United States, on January 21, 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order instructing federal agencies to use all available legal authorities, including the Defense Production Act, to improve current and future pandemic response and biological threat preparedness. The rapid reallocation of resources for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19 (including the production of COVID-19 vaccinations or related therapies, such as our agreement to contribute to the production of COVID-19 antibody therapies for Lilly) and/or disruptions and shortages in the global supply chain caused by the pandemic, could also result in increased competition for, or reduced availability of, materials or components used in the development, manufacturing, distribution, or administration of our products. For example, during the second quarter of 2021, an industry-wide shortage of certain lab kit supplies necessary for some activities that support our clinical trials has developed that we are actively monitoring and managing. We have also experienced challenges in obtaining certain COVID-19-related supplies, including COVID-19 antigen rapid test kits for our staff, as a result of high demand and limited supplies during the omicron variant surge. In addition, unpredictable increases in demand for certain of our products could exceed our capacity to meet such demand, which could adversely affect our financial results and customer relationships. The COVID-19 pandemic and the volatile global economic conditions stemming from it may precipitate or amplify the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, which could materially adversely affect our business, operations and 28   financial condition and results. For example, if a natural disaster or other potentially disruptive event occurs concurrently with the COVID-19 pandemic, such disaster or event could deplete our inventory levels and we could experience a disruption to our manufacturing or ability to supply our products. The rapid development and fluidity of the pandemic precludes any prediction as to the ultimate effect of COVID-19 on us. The duration of the measures being taken by the authorities to mitigate against the spread of COVID-19 (including the distribution and/or availability of vaccines and boosters), and the extent to which such measures are effective, if at all, remain highly uncertain. The magnitude and degree of COVID-19’s adverse effect on our business (including our product development, product sales, operating results and resulting cash flows) and financial condition will be driven by the severity and duration of the pandemic, the pandemic’s effect on the United States and global economies and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state, local and international governmental responses to the pandemic. If mitigation of the pandemic continues to require further shelter-in-place and shutdown orders and/or restrictions on individual and/or group conduct, any adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will likely grow and could be enduring, and our business and financial position could be materially adversely affected. A breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, network-connected control systems and/or our data, interrupt the operation of our business and/or affect our reputation. To achieve our business objectives, we rely on sophisticated information technology systems, including software, mobile applications, cloud services and network-connected control systems, some of which are managed, hosted, provided or serviced by third parties. Internal or external events that compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and data may significantly interrupt the operation of our business, result in significant costs and/or adversely affect our reputation. Our information technology systems are highly integrated into our business, including our R&D efforts, our clinical and commercial manufacturing processes and our product sales and distribution processes. Further, as the majority of our employees are working remotely, our reliance on our and third-party information technology systems has increased substantially and is expected to continue to increase. The complexity and interconnected nature of our systems makes them potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other service interruptions. Upgrades or changes to our systems or the software that we use may result in the introduction of new cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks. Our systems are also subject to frequent cyberattacks. As the cyber-threat landscape evolves, these attacks are growing in frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. Such attacks could include the use of harmful and virulent malware, including ransomware or other denials of service, that can be deployed through various means, including the software supply chain, e-mail, malicious websites and/or the use of social engineering. We have also experienced denial of service attacks against our network, and although such attacks did not succeed, there can be no assurance that our efforts to guard against the wide and growing variety of potential attack techniques will be successful in the future. Attacks such as those experienced by governmental entities (including those that approve and/or regulate our products, such as the EMA) and other multi-national companies, including some of our peers, could leave us unable to utilize key business systems or access or protect important data, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business, including developing, gaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing, selling and/or distributing our products. For example, in 2017, a pharmaceutical company experienced a cyberattack involving virulent malware that significantly disrupted its operations, including its research and sales operations and the production of some of its medicines and vaccines. As a result of the cyberattack, its orders and sales for certain products in certain markets were negatively affected. In December 2020, SolarWinds Corporation, a leading provider of software for monitoring and managing information technology infrastructure, disclosed that it had suffered a cybersecurity incident whereby attackers had inserted malicious code into legitimate software updates for its products that were installed by myriad private and government customers, enabling the attackers to access a backdoor to such systems. Our systems also contain and utilize a high volume of sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets, financial information, regulatory information, strategic plans, sales trends and forecasts, litigation materials and/or personal information belonging to us, our staff, our patients, customers and/or other parties. In some cases, we utilize third-party service providers to process, store, manage or transmit such data, which may increase our risk. Intentional or inadvertent data privacy or security breaches (including cyberattacks) resulting from attacks or lapses by employees, service providers (including providers of information technology-specific services), nation states (including groups associated with or supported by foreign intelligence agencies), organized crime organizations, “hacktivists” or others, create risks that our sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons, our competitors, or the public. For example, a supplier recently experienced a data breach in which an unauthorized third party acquired access to certain information provided to the supplier in the course of its provision of services to us, including business documents and certain personally identifiable patient information (not including social security or other financial or health insurance information). As required, we promptly notified the applicable state attorneys general and the individuals whose personally identifiable information was affected of this data breach at the supplier. Although the supplier data breach did not result in a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that a similar 29   future cybersecurity incident would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Another vendor experienced a cyberattack and, while initially reporting that our information was not involved, the vendor subsequently informed us that the attacker had accessed limited, non-significant information. Although this breach did not have a significant adverse effect on us, we may not receive timely reporting of future breaches. Cyberattackers are increasingly exploiting vulnerabilities in commercially available software from shared or open-source code. We rely on third party commercial software that may have such vulnerabilities, but as use of open-source code is frequently not disclosed, our ability to fully assess this risk to our systems is limited. For example, in December 2021, a remote code execution vulnerability was discovered in a widely used software library that is used in a variety of commercially available software and services. Although this vulnerability has not resulted in any significant adverse effects on us, there can be no assurances that a similar future vulnerability in the software and services that we use would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Domestic and global government regulators, our business partners, suppliers with whom we do business, companies that provide us or our partners with business services, and companies we have or may acquire face similar risks, and security breaches of their systems or service outages could adversely affect our security, leave us without access to important systems, products, raw materials, components, services or information or expose our confidential data or sensitive personal information. For example, in 2019, two vendors that perform testing and analytical services that we use in developing and manufacturing our products experienced cyberattacks, and in April and September of 2020, vendors that provide us with information technology services and clinical data services, respectively, each experienced ransomware attacks. Although there was no breach of our systems, each of these incidents required us to disconnect our systems from those vendors’ systems. While we were able to reconnect our systems following restoration of these vendors’ capabilities without significantly affecting product availability, a more extended service outage affecting these or other vendors, particularly where such vendor is the single source from which we obtain the services, could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we distribute our products in the United States primarily through three pharmaceutical wholesalers, and a security breach that impairs the distribution operations of our wholesalers could significantly impair our ability to deliver our products to healthcare providers and patients. Although we have experienced system breakdowns, attacks and information security breaches, we do not believe such breakdowns, attacks and breaches have had a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We continue to invest in the monitoring, protection and resilience of our critical and/or sensitive data and systems. However, there can be no assurances that our efforts will detect, prevent or fully recover systems or data from all breakdowns, service interruptions, attacks and/or breaches of our systems that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss or exposure of critical, proprietary, private, confidential or otherwise sensitive data, which could result in material financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us or negatively affect our stock price. While we maintain cyber-liability insurance, our insurance is not sufficient to cover us against all losses that could potentially result from a service interruption, breach of our systems or loss of our critical or sensitive data. We are also subject to various laws and regulations globally regarding privacy and data protection, including laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. The legislative and regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection is continuously evolving and developing and the subject of significant attention globally. For example, we are subject to the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which became effective in May 2018, and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), which became effective in January 2020, both of which provide for substantial penalties for non-compliance. The CCPA was amended in late 2020, to create the California Privacy Rights Act to create opt-in requirements for the use of sensitive personal data and the formation of a new dedicated agency for the enforcement of the law, the California Privacy Protection Agency. Since then, Virginia and Colorado both passed similar consumer privacy laws that will go into effect in 2023. Other jurisdictions where we operate have passed, or continue to propose, similar legislation and/or regulations. Failure to comply with these current and future laws could result in significant penalties and reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. As we continue our expansion efforts in emerging markets around the world, through acquisitions and licensing transactions as well as through the development and introduction, both independently and through collaborations such as our collaboration with BeiGene, of our products in new markets, we face numerous risks to our business. There is no guarantee that our efforts and strategies to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. Our international business, including in China and emerging market countries, may be especially vulnerable to periods of global and local political, legal, regulatory and financial instability, including issues of geopolitical relations, the imposition of international sanctions in response to certain state actions and/or sovereign debt issues. If relations between the United States and other governments deteriorate, our business and investments such markets may also be adversely affected. We may also be required to increase our reliance on third-party agents and unfamiliar operations and arrangements including those previously utilized by companies we partner with or acquire 30   in emerging markets. See We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications . Our expansion efforts in China and emerging markets around the world is dependent upon the establishment of an environment that is predictable, navigable and supportive of biopharmaceutical innovation, sustained access for our products and predictable pricing controls. For example, China continues to strengthen regulations on the collection, use and transmission of Chinese human genetic resources, and has expanded regulations on the conduct of biotechnology R&D activities in China. Our applications to the HGRAC seeking approval to conduct clinical trials in China are delayed pending further guidance from HGRAC. Our international operations and business may also be subject to less protective intellectual property or other applicable laws, diverse data privacy and protection requirements, changing tax laws and tariffs, trade restrictions or other barriers designed to protect industry in the home country against foreign competition, far-reaching antibribery and anticorruption laws and regulations and/or evolving legal and regulatory environments. As we expand internationally, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a program in place that is designed to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through foreign currency hedging arrangements, our hedging efforts do not completely offset the effect of these fluctuations on our revenues and earnings. In addition, we have a number of financial instruments referencing the LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it will no longer require banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the LIBOR administrator after 2021, and it is anticipated that LIBOR will be completely phased out and replaced by 2023. In March 2020 and in January 2021, the FASB issued a new accounting standard to ease the financial burdens of the expected market transition from LIBOR and other interbank offered rates to alternative reference rates. While it appears likely that SOFR will be the replacement reference rate adopted in the market, the specific mechanisms to replace LIBOR in our existing LIBOR-linked financial instruments have not been finalized. As such, the replacement of LIBOR could have an adverse effect on the market for, or value of, our LIBOR-linked financial instruments. See Part IV-Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies-Recent accounting pronouncements. We are also subject to the economic and political uncertainties stemming from the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” which occurred on January 31, 2020. While our manufacturing and packaging activities take place largely outside the United Kingdom, minimizing the need to make costly and significant changes to those operations, we have nevertheless been working to put in place contingency plans to attempt to mitigate the effects of Brexit on us. Overall, the legal and operational challenges of our international business operations, along with government controls, the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified personnel and obtaining and/or maintaining necessary regulatory or pricing approvals of our products, may result in material adverse effects on our international product sales, business and results of operations.  RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND THIRD-PARTY POLICIES Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. Governments and private payers continue to pursue initiatives to manage drug utilization and contain costs. These payers are increasingly focused on costs, which have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in lower reimbursement rates for our products or narrower populations for whom payers will reimburse. Continued intense public scrutiny of the price of drugs and other healthcare costs, together with payer dynamics, have limited, and are likely to continue to limit, our ability to set or adjust the price of our products based on their value, which can have a material adverse effect on our business. In the United States, particularly over the past few years, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals have been introduced in an attempt to lower drug prices. These include proposals that would allow the U.S. government to negotiate drug prices directly, limit drug reimbursement in Medicare and/or the commercial market based on reference prices or permit importation of drugs from Canada. Additional proposals would require a rebate to the government for any price increase in excess of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers and/or to shift some of the costs of these Medicare Part D reforms to manufacturers to offset the cost. Certain proposals focused on drug pricing have been adopted and additional proposals are likely to be adopted and implemented in some form. -Changing U.S. federal coverage and reimbursement policies and practices have affected, and may continue to affect access to, pricing and sales of our products A substantial portion of our U.S. business relies on reimbursement from federal government healthcare programs and commercial insurance plans regulated by federal and state governments. See Part I, Item 1. Business-Reimbursement. Our business has been and will continue to be affected by legislative actions changing U.S. federal reimbursement policy. Congress has been focused on drug pricing reforms and oversight since 2018, and this activity is still ongoing and has intensified. In 2019, 2020 and 2021, a number of Congressional committees debated drug pricing reform proposals and, in 2020, Amgen participated in House Oversight and Reform Committee hearings on drug pricing practices. In 2019, the Senate Finance Committee advanced a bill that would, among other things, penalize pharmaceutical manufacturers for raising prices on drugs 31   covered by Medicare Parts B and/or D faster than the rate of inflation, cap out-of-pocket expenses for Medicare Part D beneficiaries and require higher/additional manufacturer discounts in Medicare Part D. Additionally, in late 2019, a drug-pricing bill, H.R. 3, passed the House of Representatives, which would, among other things, enable direct price negotiations by the federal government on certain drugs (with the maximum price paid by Medicare capped by prices derived from an international index), include a penalty for failing to reach agreement with the government and require that manufacturers offer these negotiated prices to other payers. In 2021, proposals from H.R. 3 were incorporated and adapted into other proposed legislation. These proposals, which included penalties if drug price benchmarks rise faster than inflation, Medicare price setting for certain drugs paid for under Parts B and D (whereby manufacturers must accept a price established by the government or face a penalty on all U.S. sales), and Part D redesign including a cap on beneficiary spending and a new manufacturer discount program, are also likely to be considered in a reconciliation bill that remains to be further debated between the Senate, House and White House. This framework remains in discussion with policymakers in Congress and the Administration. There are other outstanding proposals that, if enacted and implemented in whole or in part, could also affect access to and sales of our products, including, but not limited to, proposals to allow importation of prescription medications from Canada or other countries. In July 2021, the Administration issued an Executive Order designed to address anticompetitive behavior across multiple sectors, and for the healthcare sector, called for, among other things, the FDA to work with states and Indian Tribes to develop prescription drug importation programs, more scrutiny of anticompetitive activity by the FTC, emphasized the need for actions to allow for greater competition from generics and biosimilars, and included a process and timeline for federal agencies to deliver ideas to address drug pricing to the Administration. Subsequently, in September 2021, HHS released a report that presented guiding principles for the Administration’s drug pricing proposals, including changes to promote competition throughout the prescription drug industry, highlighting potential legislative policies that Congress could pursue (including drug price negotiation in Medicare Parts B and D, making those negotiated prices available to commercial plans and legislation to speed the entry of biosimilar and generic drugs) and examples of potential administrative tools available to the HHS (including testing various models and enhanced focus of the FTC and the USPTO to address impediments to generic drug and biosimilar competition). Also, in response to the July 2021 Executive Order, the FDA sent a letter to the USPTO describing ways to strengthen coordination between the two agencies, offering training to help identify prior art, and seeking USPTO’s views on practices that extend market exclusivities, whether pharmaceutical patent examiners need additional resources, and the effect of post-grant challenges at the PTAB on drug patents. Legislation enacted in 2021 has also contained drug pricing reforms, including the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 that include provisions requiring, starting in 2023, manufacturers to provide refunds to the government for discarded amounts of drugs from single use containers under Medicare Part B, and starting in 2024, increases the Medicaid rebate liability for certain medicines that raise prices in excess of inflation, respectively. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act also delays implementation until January 1, 2026 of a final rule issued by HHS, that revises regulations under the federal antikickback statute to encourage PBMs to use rebates received from biopharmaceutical manufacturers to reduce patient cost-sharing at the point of sale under Medicare Part D. This rule is also subject to litigation, has numerous logistical hurdles to overcome before it can be effectively implemented, and it is unclear how PBMs will respond to the implementation of such rule. Further, a permanent repeal of this rule is also being considered in other legislation. Our business has been, and is expected to continue to be, affected by changes in U.S. federal reimbursement policy resulting from federal regulations and federal demonstration projects. Over the past several years, federal agencies, including the CMS, announced a number of recommendations, policies, proposals and demonstration projects addressing drug pricing. The Administration has also developed and sought to advance a range of policy proposals that could impact U.S. federal reimbursement policy for drugs and biologics, including changes to Medicare Parts B and D. For example, in 2020, in response to an Executive Order, HHS released a rule to allow states to potentially enable the importation of certain drugs from Canada. While this rule is in litigation, should such litigation be unsuccessful, it could allow for the importation of Canadian versions of certain of Amgen’s products (including Otezla), that could have a material adverse effect on Amgen’s business. Also in response to an Executive Order, CMS released an interim final rule to implement the MFN pricing approach aimed at setting the reimbursement rate for 50 Medicare Part B drugs (including our products, such as Prolia, XGEVA, KYPROLIS, Neulasta, Nplate, EPOGEN and Aranesp) equal to the lowest adjusted price in 22 OECD nations for these drugs. In December 2021, subsequent to challenges, including procedural defects, CMS announced it was withdrawing the MFN rule. Notwithstanding the withdrawal of the rule, the MFN rule’s approach to drug pricing and other similar approaches remain of interest to policymakers. In connection with its withdrawal of the MFN rule, CMS noted that it will “… explore all options to incorporate value into payments for Medicare Part B drugs, improve beneficiaries’ access to evidence-based care, and reduce drug spending for consumers and throughout the health care system.” Further, we expect continued significant focus on healthcare and similar drug pricing proposals for the foreseeable future, including proposals under which the government would set drug prices or limit drug reimbursement. CMS policy changes and demonstration projects to test new care, delivery and payment models can also significantly affect how drugs, including our products, are covered and reimbursed. For example, we believe that CMS’ Oncology Care Model demonstration (which has since 2016 provided participating physician practices with performance-based financial 32   incentives that aim to manage or reduce Medicare costs without negatively affecting the efficacy of care) has reduced utilization of certain of our oncology products by participating physician practices and expect that it will continue to do so in the future. Further, HHS’s September 2021 comprehensive plan to address drug pricing included potential future mandatory models that link payment for prescription drugs and biologics to factors such as: improved patient outcomes, reductions in health disparities, patient affordability and lower overall costs; bundled payment models; total cost of care models; models in which Medicare Part B savings from utilization of biosimilars, generics, or other high-value products are shared between prescribing providers and the government; additional Medicare Part D cost-sharing support for biosimilars and generics; and potential expansion of the Part D Senior Savings Model to additional classes of drugs. CMS also recently proposed a national coverage determination for Medicare which limits coverage of certain Alzheimer’s disease medications approved by the FDA only to patients in qualifying clinical trials, suggesting that regulatory approval does not necessarily result in full Medicare coverage. In this dynamic environment, particularly in light of the pressures on healthcare budgets as a result of the pandemic, we are unable to predict which or how many federal policy, legislative, regulatory, executive or administrative changes may ultimately be, or effectively estimate the consequences to our business if, enacted and implemented. However, to the extent that these or other federal government initiatives further decrease or modify the coverage or reimbursement available for our products, require that we pay increased rebates or shift other costs to us, limit or affect our decisions regarding the pricing of or otherwise reduce the use of our U.S. products, or limit our ability to offer co-pay payment assistance to commercial patients, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also face risks relating to the reporting of pricing data that affects the reimbursement of and discounts provided for our products. U.S. government price reporting regulations are complex and may require a biopharmaceutical manufacturer to update certain previously submitted data. If our submitted pricing data are incorrect, we may become subject to substantial fines and penalties or other government enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as a result of restating previously reported price data, we also may be required to pay additional rebates and provide additional discounts. CMS finalized a rule in December 2020 providing that, starting January 1, 2023, unless a manufacturer can ensure that the full amount of manufacturer patient assistance programs is passed on to the patient, such amount will be treated as a price reduction that will be taken into account when reporting our Best Price and/or Average Manufacturer Price. Given the use by PBMs and insurers of copay accumulator adjustment programs to apply such patient assistance for the benefit of such companies and not to defray costs to patients, it could be difficult to impossible for manufacturers to ensure that the full value of such amounts is being passed on to the patient. This new policy, if implemented, would have significant implications for our ability to offer copay assistance programs. Although implementation has been delayed by the current Administration, the prior Administration finalized a rule (which was to be effective January 1, 2022) mandating price and cost-sharing transparency for almost all health plans and insurers in the individual and group commercial markets. Additionally, the Administration recently finalized transparency provisions required under the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021 for health plans and insurer reporting of certain drug pricing information by December 27, 2022, and each June thereafter, resulting in a biennial public report highlighting drug pricing trends and the impact of prescription drug costs on premiums and out-of-pocket costs. It is unclear how group health plans and health insurers may respond. -Changing reimbursement and pricing actions in various states have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, access to, and have affected, and may continue to affect, sales of our products At the state level, government actions or ballot initiatives can also affect how our products are covered and reimbursed and/or create additional pressure on our pricing decisions. A number of states have adopted, and many other states are considering, drug importation programs or other new pricing actions, including proposals designed to require biopharmaceutical manufacturers publicly to report proprietary pricing information, limit price increases or place a maximum price ceiling or cap on biopharmaceutical products. Existing and proposed state pricing laws have added complexity to the pricing of drugs and may already be affecting industry pricing decisions. For example, a California law, the constitutionality of which is currently being challenged, purports to require biopharmaceutical manufacturers to notify health insurers and government health plans at least 60 days before scheduled prescription drug price increases that exceed certain thresholds. Similar laws exist in Oregon and Washington. States are also seeking to change the way they pay for drugs for patients covered by state programs. California adopted a 2020-21 budget that incorporates international pricing into Medicaid supplemental rebate negotiations and allows its Medicaid program to seek federal approval to extend supplemental rebates to non-Medicaid populations. New York, Massachusetts and Ohio have established Medicaid drug spending caps, and additional states may consider doing so as they face budget deficits from the effects of COVID-19. Additionally, Colorado, Florida, Maine, New Hampshire, New Mexico and Vermont have enacted laws, and several other states have proposed laws, to facilitate the importation of drugs from Canada. Other states could adopt similar approaches or could pursue different policy changes in a continuing effort to reduce their costs. Ultimately, as with U.S. federal government actions, existing or future state government actions or ballot initiatives may also have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations.  33   -U.S. commercial payer actions have affected and may continue to affect access to and sales of our products Payers, including healthcare insurers, PBMs, integrated healthcare delivery systems (vertically-integrated organizations built from the consolidation of healthcare insurers and PBMs) and group purchasing organizations, increasingly seek ways to reduce their costs. With increasing frequency, payers are adopting benefit plan changes that shift a greater proportion of drug costs to patients. Such measures include more limited benefit plan designs, high deductible plans, higher patient copay or coinsurance obligations and more significant limitations on patients’ use of manufacturer commercial copay assistance programs. Further, government regulation of payers may affect these trends. For example, CMS finalized a policy in May 2020 (for plan years starting on or after January 1, 2021, and remains standing policy for 2022) that has caused commercial payers to more widely adopt copay accumulator adjustment programs. Payers have sought, and continue to seek, price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies or those they manage, particularly in treatment areas where the payer has taken the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. Payers also control costs by imposing restrictions on access to or usage of our products, such as Step Therapy, or requiring that patients receive the payer’s prior authorization before covering the product or that patients use a mail-order pharmacy or a limited network of payer fully-owned mail-order or specialty pharmacies. Payers have also chosen to exclude certain indications for which our products are approved or chosen to exclude coverage entirely. For example, some payers require physicians to demonstrate or document that the patients for whom Repatha has been prescribed meet payer utilization management criteria, and these requirements have limited, and may continue to limit, patient access to Repatha treatment. In an effort to reduce barriers to access, we reduced the net price of Repatha by providing greater discounts and rebates to payers, including PBMs that administer Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. However, affordability of patient out-of-pocket co-pay cost has limited and may continue to limit patient use. For example, in late 2018 and early 2019, in response to a very high percentage of Medicare patients abandoning their Repatha prescriptions rather than pay their co-pay payment, we introduced a set of new National Drug Codes to make Repatha available at a lower list price to attempt to address affordability for patients, particularly those on Medicare, and on December 31, 2019, we discontinued the higher list price option for Repatha. Despite these net and list price reductions, some payers have restricted, and may continue to restrict, patient access and have and may continue to change formulary coverage for Repatha, seek further discounts or rebates or take other actions that could reduce our sales of Repatha. These factors have limited, and may continue to limit, patient affordability and use, and negatively affect Repatha sales. Further, significant consolidation in the health insurance industry has resulted in a few large insurers and PBMs, which places greater pressure on pricing and usage negotiations with biopharmaceutical manufacturers, significantly increasing discount and rebate requirements and limiting patient access and usage. For example, in the United States, as of the beginning of 2021, the top five integrated health plans and PBMs controlled about 85% of all pharmacy prescriptions. The consolidation among insurers, PBMs and other payers, including through integrated healthcare delivery systems and/or with specialty or mail-order pharmacies and pharmacy retailers, has increased the negotiating leverage such entities have over us and other biopharmaceutical manufacturers, and has resulted in greater price discounts, rebates and service fees realized by those payers. In 2019, 2020 and 2021, CVS, Express Scripts and United Health Group, respectively, each created Rebate Management Organizations that further increase their respective leverage to negotiate deeper discounts. Ultimately, additional discounts, rebates, fees, coverage or plan changes, restrictions or exclusions imposed by these commercial payers could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Policy reforms advanced by Congress or the Administration that refine the role of PBMs in the U.S. marketplace could have downstream implications or consequences for our business and how we interact with these entities. See Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and at one free-standing dialysis clinic business and consolidation of private payers may negatively affect our business. -Government and commercial payer actions outside the United States have affected and will continue to affect access to and sales of our products Outside the United States, we expect countries will also continue to take actions to reduce their drug expenditures. See Part I, Item 1. Business-Reimbursement. IRP has been widely used by many countries outside the United States to control costs based on an external benchmark of a product’s price in other countries. IRP policies can change quickly and frequently and may not reflect differences in the burden of disease, indications, market structures, or affordability differences across countries or regions. Other expenditure control practices, including but not limited to the use of revenue clawbacks, rebates and percentage caps on price increases, are used in various foreign jurisdictions as well. In addition, countries may refuse to reimburse or may restrict the reimbursed population for a product when their national health technology assessments do not consider a medicine to demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit beyond existing therapies or to meet certain cost effectiveness thresholds. For example, despite the EMA’s approval of Repatha for the treatment of patients with established atherosclerotic disease, the reimbursement for Repatha in France prior to 2020 was limited to a narrower patient population (such as those with HoFH) following a national health technology assessment, which had limited our efforts in France to expand Repatha access to the broader patient population covered by the approved label. Some countries decide on reimbursement between potentially competing products through national or regional tenders that often result in one product receiving most or all of the sales in that country or region. Failure to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products, a deterioration in their existing coverage and 34   reimbursement, or a decline in the timeliness or certainty of payment by payers to physicians and other providers has negatively affected, and may further negatively affect, the ability or willingness of healthcare providers to prescribe our products for their patients and otherwise negatively affect the use of our products or the prices we realize for them. Such changes have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. Professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians’ groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases also publish guidelines and recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, as well as patient communities. Recommendations by government agencies or other groups and organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies. In addition, a growing number of organizations are providing assessments of the value and pricing of biopharmaceutical products, and even organizations whose guidelines have historically been focused on clinical matters have begun to incorporate analyses of the cost effectiveness of various treatments into their treatment guidelines and recommendations. Value assessments may come from private organizations that publish their findings and offer recommendations relating to the products’ reimbursement by government and private payers. Some companies and payers have announced pricing and payment decisions based in part on the assessments of private organizations. In addition, government health technology assessment organizations in many countries make reimbursement recommendations to payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service effects of new, emerging and existing medicines and treatments. Such health technology assessment organizations have recommended, and may in the future recommend, reimbursement for certain of our products for a narrower indication than was approved by applicable regulatory agencies or may recommend against reimbursement entirely. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Such recommendations or guidelines may affect our reputation, and any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business. As a result, our provision for income taxes is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places we operate. Significant judgment is required for determining our provision for income tax. One or more of our legal entities file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns are routinely examined by tax authorities in those jurisdictions. Significant disputes can arise with tax authorities involving issues regarding the timing and amount of deductions, the use of tax credits and allocations of income and expenses among various tax jurisdictions because of differing interpretations of tax laws, regulations and relevant facts, and such tax authorities (including the IRS) are becoming more aggressive in their audits and are particularly focused on such matters. In 2017, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS administrative appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest two duplicate Statutory Notices of Deficiency (Notices) for 2010, 2011 and 2012 that we received in May and July 2021 which seek to increase our U.S. taxable income. We firmly believe that the IRS’s positions set forth in the Notices are without merit, and are contesting the Notices through the judicial process. See 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations, Income Taxes, and Part IV-Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico similar to those proposed for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office. We were unable to reach resolution at the administrative appeals level, and we anticipate that we will receive a statutory notice of deficiency for these years as well. We expect to contest any such notice related to 2013–15 through the judicial process. We are also currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 and by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex matters is not likely within the next 12 months. We continue to believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts 35   and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. The 2017 Tax Act is complex and a large volume of regulations and guidance has been issued and could be subject to different interpretations. We could face audit challenges to our application of the 2017 Tax Act. The Administration proposed and Congress is considering significant changes to existing tax law. These changes, if enacted, could substantially increase taxes we pay to the U.S. government. Further, the OECD recently reached agreement to align countries on a minimum corporate tax rate and an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries. If enacted, this agreement could result in tax increases in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Treasury recently released final foreign tax credit regulations that eliminate U.S. creditability of the Puerto Rico Excise Tax beginning 2023, which will increase our U.S. tax liability. The U.S. territory of Puerto Rico is considering changes to its tax system that may minimize or eliminate this impact, but the outcome of such potential changes are uncertain. Changes to existing tax law in the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, or other jurisdictions, including the potential changes discussed above, could result in tax increases where we do business and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. See Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time consuming and distracting, and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We and certain of our subsidiaries have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. We are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. In recent years, there has been a trend of increasing government investigations and litigations against companies operating in our industry, both in the United States and around the world. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar antibribery or anticorruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act. We cannot ensure that all our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. On April 25, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations relating to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access their medicines. As a result, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG that requires us to maintain a corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. While we expect to fully comply with all of our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, failure to do so could result in substantial penalties and potential exclusion from government healthcare programs. We may also see new government investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. For example, prosecutors are placing greater scrutiny on patient support programs, including commercial copay assistance programs, and further enforcement actions and investigations regarding such programs could limit our ability to provide co-pay assistance to commercial patients. Greater scrutiny has also been placed on sponsorships, speaker programs and other arrangements where healthcare professionals receive remuneration, travel or other value to participate in certain events, and further enforcement actions could limit our ability to participate in such arrangements. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. See Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Competition. We expect that our products and product candidates will compete with existing drugs, new drugs 36   currently in development, drugs currently approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers of pharmaceutical products have expanded into, and are expected to continue expanding into, the biotechnology field, and some pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers have formed partnerships to pursue biosimilars. With the proliferation of companies pursuing biopharmaceuticals, a number of our product candidates may enter markets with one or more competitors or with competitors soon to arrive. For example, several of our biosimilar products have entered into markets with one or more existing competitors. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical, competitive or other advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes or greater experience in particular therapeutic areas, and consolidation among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can enhance such advantages. These advantages may make it difficult for us to compete with them successfully to discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications they may bring to market. As a result, our products have been competing and may continue to compete, and our product candidates may compete, against products or product candidates that offer higher rebates or discounts, lower prices, equivalent or superior efficacy, better safety profiles, easier administration, earlier market availability or other competitive features. If we are unable to compete effectively, this could reduce sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in current and future intellectual property litigation. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Driven by cost pressures, efforts to limit or weaken patent protection for our industry are increasing. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in increased interest in compulsory licenses, march-in rights or other governmental interventions, both in the United States and internationally, related to the procurement of drugs. See The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. Third parties have challenged and may continue to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. Challenges to patents may come from potential competitors or from parties other than those who seek to market a potentially-infringing product. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of commercialization of products. We have been in the past, are currently and expect to be in the future, involved in patent litigation. These matters have included, and may in the future include, litigation with manufacturers of products that purport to be biosimilars of certain of our products for patent infringement and for failure to comply with certain provisions of the BPCIA. A determination made by a court, agency or tribunal concerning infringement, validity, enforceability, injunctive or economic remedy, or the right to patent protection, for example, are typically subject to appellate or administrative review. Upon review, such initial determinations may be afforded little or no deference by the reviewing tribunal and may be affirmed, reversed or made the subject of reconsideration through further proceedings. A patent dispute or litigation has not discouraged, and may not in the future discourage, a potential violator from bringing the allegedly infringing product to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or litigation. The period from inception until resolution of a patent dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the dispute or litigation is pending. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to competition during this period and may not be able to recover fully from the losses, damages and harms we incur from infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail. Moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Further, under the Hatch–Waxman Act, our products approved by the FDA under the FDCA have been, and may in the future be, the subject of patent litigation with generics competitors before expiry of the five-year period of data exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product. Likewise, our innovative biologic products have been, and may in the future be, the subject of patent litigation prior to the expiration of our patents and, with respect to competitors seeking approval as a biosimilar or interchangeable version of our products, prior to the 12-year exclusivity period provided under the BPCIA. In addition, we have faced, and may in the future face, patent litigation involving claims that the biosimilar product candidates we are working to develop infringe the patents of other companies, including those that manufacture, market or sell the applicable reference products or who are developing or have developed other biosimilar versions of such products. Alternatively, patents held by other entities have contributed, and may in the future 37   contribute, to a decision by us to not pursue all of the same labeled indications as are held by these companies. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been delays in ongoing or new patent office and court proceedings in the United States and abroad that have delayed the outcome of such proceedings. While we have attempted, and expect to continue to attempt, to challenge the patents held by other companies, our efforts may be unsuccessful. For examples of and information related to our patent litigation, see Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of the existing patents on our products have expired or will soon expire. See Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Patents. As our patents expire, competitors are able to legally produce and market similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, competitors have been, and may continue to be, able to invalidate, design around or otherwise circumvent our patents and sell competing products. We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future. We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics in most of the territories in which we operate, including the United States and Europe, and we expect to face increasing biosimilar and/or generics competition this year and beyond. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights or expiration of an applicable exclusivity period has accelerated such competition, and we expect to face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. Our products have also experienced greater competition from lower cost biosimilars or generics that come to market when branded products that compete with our products lose their own patent protection. To the extent that governments adopt more permissive regulatory approval standards and competitors are able to obtain broader or expedited marketing approval for biosimilars and generics, the rate of increased competition for our products could accelerate. In the EU, biosimilars are evaluated for marketing authorization pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines. In addition, in an effort to spur biosimilar utilization and/or increase potential healthcare savings, some EU countries and some Canadian provinces have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, biosimilar uptake measures such as physician prescribing quotas or automatic pharmacy substitution of biosimilars for the corresponding reference products. Some EU countries impose automatic price reductions upon market entry of one or more biosimilar competitors. While the degree of competitive effects of biosimilar competition differs between EU countries and between products, in the EU the overall use of biosimilars and the rate at which product sales of innovative products are being affected by biosimilar competition is increasing. In the United States, the BPCIA authorizes the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. See Item 1. Business-Government Regulation-Regulation in the United States-Approval of Biosimilars. In the United States, the FDA has approved numerous biosimilars, including biosimilar versions of Neulasta, EPOGEN and ENBREL, and a growing number of companies have announced that they are also developing biosimilar versions of our products. Four biosimilar versions of Neulasta are now marketed in the United States, and we expect other biosimilar versions of Neulasta to receive approval in 2022 and beyond. Impact to our Neulasta sales has accelerated as additional competitors have launched. See Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Competition. An approved biosimilar version of EPOGEN has also launched in the United States. Manufacturers of biosimilars have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to compete with our products by offering lower list prices, greater discounts or rebates, or contracts that offer longer-term pricing or a broader portfolio of other products. Companies pursuing development of biosimilar versions of our products have challenged and may continue to challenge our patents well in advance of the expiration of our material patents. For examples of and information related to our biosimilars and generics patent litigation, see Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in current and future intellectual property litigation. The U.S. biosimilar pathway includes the option for biosimilar products that meet certain criteria to be approved as interchangeable with their reference products. Some companies currently developing or already marketing biosimilars may seek to obtain interchangeable status from the FDA, which could potentially allow pharmacists to substitute those biosimilars for our reference products without prior approval from the prescriber in most states. The FDA approved the first interchangeable biosimilar in July 2021, and subsequently granted an interchangeability designation to a second biosimilar in October 2021. In November 2019, the FDA issued draft guidance that provides that comparative immunogenicity studies will not generally be expected for biosimilar and interchangeable insulin products. This may open the door for other product-specific guidance development and the removal of the expectation for certain studies, which may contribute to increased biosimilar competition for our innovative products. For example, the FDA 2021 guidance agenda lists four guidances related to biosimilars, including documents that address exclusivity for the first interchangeable biological product, and product class-specific recommendations for developing biosimilars and interchangeables. In addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period in the biosimilar pathway law will likely continue to seek to shorten the data exclusivity period and/or to encourage the FDA to interpret narrowly the law’s provisions regarding which new 38   products receive data exclusivity. In late 2019, the previous Administration agreed to remove from the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement a requirement for at least 10 years of data exclusivity for biologic products. Also, the FDA is considering whether subsequent changes to a licensed biologic would be protected by the remainder of the reference product’s original 12-year exclusivity period (a concept known in the generic drug context as “umbrella exclusivity”). If the FDA were to decide that umbrella exclusivity does not apply to biological reference products or were to make other changes to the exclusivity period, this could expose us to biosimilar competition at an earlier time. There also have been, and may continue to be, legislative and regulatory efforts to promote competition through policies enabling easier generic and biosimilar approval and commercialization, including efforts to lower standards for demonstrating biosimilarity or interchangeability, limit patents that may be litigated and/or patent settlements, implement preferential reimbursement policies for biosimilars and pass new laws requiring more disclosure in the FDA’s Orange and Purple Books. For example, in 2021 the FDA sent a letter to the USPTO describing ways to strengthen coordination between the two agencies, offered training to help identify prior art, and seeking USPTO’s views on practices that extend market exclusivities, whether pharmaceutical patent examiners need additional resources, and the effect of post-grant challenges at the PTAB on drug patents. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection and/or applicable exclusivity for one of our small molecule products, we can lose the majority of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. See Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Competition. Additionally, if one of our small molecule products is the subject of an FDA Written Request for pediatric studies and we are unable to adequately complete these studies, we may not obtain the pediatric exclusivity award that extends existing patents and unexpired regulatory exclusivity for the product by an additional six months. While we are unable to predict the precise effects of biosimilars and generics on our products, we are currently facing and expect to face greater competition in the United States, Europe and elsewhere as a result of biosimilar and generic competition and, in turn, downward pressure on our product prices and sales. This competition has had, and could increasingly have, a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. State laws may also have an impact on our business. For example, California is the first state to have passed legislation, effective on January 1, 2020, against “pay for delay” settlements of patent infringement claims filed by manufacturers of generics or biosimilars where anything of value is given in exchange for settlement. Under this law, such settlement agreements are presumptively anticompetitive. The law may result in prolonged litigation and fewer settlements. Other states, including Connecticut, New York, Illinois and Minnesota, may adopt similar laws or a similar law could be adopted at the federal level. Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and at one free-standing dialysis clinic business and consolidation of private payers may negatively affect our business. Certain of our distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage, due to the volume of our products they purchase or the number of patient lives for which they provide coverage. The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales is made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors: McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. One of our products, EPOGEN, is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics. DaVita owns or manages a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the United States and accounts for approximately 90% of all EPOGEN sales. Similarly, as discussed above, there has been significant consolidation in the health insurance industry, including that a small number of PBMs now oversee a substantial percentage of total covered lives in the United States. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. The three largest PBMs in the United States are now part of major health insurance providers. The growing concentration of purchasing and negotiating power by these entities has, and may continue to, put pressure on our pricing due to their ability to extract price discounts on our products, fees for other services or rebates, negatively affecting our bargaining position, sales and/or profit margins. In addition, decisions by these entities to purchase or cover less or none of our products in favor of competing products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations due to their purchasing volume. Further, if one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties and becomes unable or unwilling to pay us all amounts that such distributor owes us on a timely basis, or at all, it could negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if one of our significant wholesale distributors becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to continue its commercial relationship with us in its present form, it could significantly disrupt our business and adversely affect our product sales, our business and results of operations unless suitable alternatives are timely found or lost sales are absorbed by another distributor.  RISKS RELATED TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We may not be able to develop commercial products despite significant investments in R&D. Amgen invests heavily in R&D. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects yield approved and commercially viable products. Product candidates, including biosimilar product 39   candidates, or new indications for existing products (collectively, product candidates) that appear promising in the early phases of development have failed to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it achieved its primary endpoints and/or demonstrated positive preclinical or early clinical trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the standard of care of medicine or expectations of health authorities; • the product candidate was not effective or not more effective than currently available or potentially competitive therapies in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate was not cost effective in light of existing or potentially competitive therapeutics; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in animals or humans; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA or EMA, did not approve the product candidate for an intended use; • reimbursement for the product candidate is limited despite regulatory approval; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; • other parties had or may have had proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and did not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all; • we and certain of our licensees, partners, contracted organizations or independent investigators failed to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities; • the pathway to regulatory approval or reimbursement for product candidates was uncertain or not well-defined; • the biosimilar product candidate failed to demonstrate the requisite biosimilarity to the applicable reference product, or was otherwise determined by a regulatory authority to not meet applicable standards for approval; and • a companion diagnostic device that is required with the use of a product candidate is not approved by the necessary regulatory authority. We have spent considerable time, energy and resources developing our expertise in human genetics and acquiring access to libraries of genetic information with the belief that genetics could meaningfully aid our search for new medicines and help guide our R&D decisions and investments. We have focused our R&D strategy on drug targets validated by genetic or other compelling human evidence. However, product candidates based on genetically validated targets remain subject to the uncertainties of the drug development process and may not reach the market for a number of reasons, including the factors listed above. We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. Before a product may be sold, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. The results of those clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory authorities such as the FDA and EMA. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval . We are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims. The length of time, number of trial sites and number of patients required for clinical trials vary substantially, and we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials. In addition, we may have difficulty finding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites and patients to participate in our clinical trials, particularly if competitors are conducting clinical trials in similar patient populations. See The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. Patients may withdraw from clinical trials at any time, and privacy laws and/or other restrictions in certain countries may restrict the ability of clinical trial investigators to conduct further follow-up on such patients, which may adversely affect the interpretation of study results. Delays and complications in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, associated delays in regulatory approvals and in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. Further, to increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened, and will continue to open, clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including Russia, India, China, South Korea, the Philippines, Singapore and some Central and South American countries, either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. 40   Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. For other examples of the risks of conducting clinical trials in China, see also Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets . Further, we must ensure the timely production, distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product candidates to numerous and varied clinical trial sites. Additionally, regional disruptions, including natural and man-made disasters or health emergencies (such as novel viruses or pandemics such as the one we are currently experiencing with COVID-19), have significantly disrupted, and in the future could disrupt, the timing of clinical trials. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and diverse regulatory aspects of our large and/or complex clinical trials or to manage the production or distribution of our clinical supply, or such sites experience disruptions as a result of a natural/man-made disaster or health emergency, corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. For example, our clinical trials have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. See The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. If we are unable to market and sell our products or product candidates or to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on independent third-party clinical investigators to recruit patients and conduct clinical trials on our behalf in accordance with applicable study protocols, laws and regulations. Further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. In some circumstances, we enter into co-development arrangements with other pharmaceutical and medical devices companies that provide for the other company to conduct certain clinical trials for the product we are co-developing or to develop a diagnostic test used in screening or monitoring patients in our clinical trials. See Some of our pharmaceutical pipeline and our commercial product sales rely on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of our products. We also may acquire companies that have past or ongoing clinical trials or rights to products or product candidates for which clinical trials have been or are being conducted. These trials may not have been conducted to the same standards as ours; however, once an acquisition has been completed we assume responsibility for the conduct of these trials, including any potential risks and liabilities associated with the past and prospective conduct of those trials. If regulatory authorities determine that we or others, including our licensees or co-development partners, or the independent investigators or vendors selected by us, our co-development partners or by a company we have acquired or from which we have acquired rights to a product or product candidate, have not complied with regulations applicable to the clinical trials, those authorities may refuse or reject some or all of the clinical trial data or take other actions that could delay or otherwise negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain marketing approval of the product or indication. In addition, delays or failures to develop diagnostic tests for our clinical trials can affect the timely enrollment of such trials and lead to delays or inability to obtain marketing approval. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some of our clinical trials utilize drugs manufactured and marketed by other pharmaceutical companies. These drugs may be administered in clinical trials in combination with one of our products or product candidates or in a head-to-head study comparing the products’ or product candidates’ relative efficacy and safety. In the event that any of these vendors or pharmaceutical companies have unforeseen issues that negatively affect the quality of their work product or create a shortage of supply, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain an adequate supply of these other drugs, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results may also be negatively affected. As a result, such quality or supply problems could adversely affect our ability to timely file for, gain or maintain regulatory approvals worldwide. Clinical trials must generally be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However, in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In some cases, we may design a clinical trial based on the standard of care we anticipate will exist at the time our study is completed. The duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on standards of medical care that are no longer or that have not become the current standards by the time such trials are completed, limiting the utility and application of such trials. Additionally, the views of regulatory agencies relating to the requirements for accelerated approval may change over time, and trial designs that were sufficient to support accelerated approvals for some oncology products may not be considered sufficient for later candidates. We may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and therefore may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates or new indications for existing products and/or maintain our current product labels. Participants in clinical trials of our products and product candidates may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects that could, among other factors, delay or terminate clinical trial programs and/or require additional or longer trials to gain approval. Even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a risk management plan for our product or for approval of a new indication. Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense, and the outcomes could result in further label restrictions or 41   the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our products, our business and results of operations. Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal government authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the EMA. We are required in the United States and in the other regions and countries in which we, or our partners and affiliates, sell to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we manufacture, market and sell our products. Once our products are approved, the FDA and other U.S. and ex-U.S. regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing and reporting, perform inspections, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions or monetary penalties as well as reputational and other harms. The sanctions could include the FDA’s or ex-U.S. regulatory authorities’ refusals to approve pending applications, delays in obtaining or withdrawals of approvals, delays or suspensions of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, total or partial suspensions of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecutions. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals have been, and will continue to be, increasingly difficult, time-consuming and costly. Legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could enact new laws or regulations, change existing laws or regulations or change their interpretations of laws or regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or product candidates. The rate and degree of change in existing laws and regulations and regulatory expectations have accelerated in established markets, and regulatory expectations continue to evolve in emerging markets. We are unable to predict whether and when any further changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur, such as changes to laws or regulations governing manufacturer communications concerning drug products and drug product candidates and whether such changes could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Further, we are reliant on regulators having the resources necessary to evaluate and approve our products. In the United States, a partial federal government shutdown halted the work of many federal agencies and their employees from late December 2018 through late January 2019. A subsequent extended shutdown could result in reductions or delays of FDA’s activities, including with respect to our ongoing clinical programs, our manufacturing of our products and product candidates and our product approvals. Regulatory authorities have questioned, and may in the future question, the sufficiency for approval of the endpoints we select for our clinical trials. A number of our products and product candidates have been evaluated in clinical trials using surrogate endpoints that measure an effect that is known to correlate with an ultimate clinical benefit. For example, a therapeutic oncology product candidate may be evaluated for its ability to reduce or eliminate MRD, or to extend the length of time during and after the treatment that a patient lives without the disease worsening, measured by PFS. Demonstrating that the product candidate induces MRD-negative responses or produces a statistically significant improvement in PFS does not necessarily mean that the product candidate will show a statistically significant improvement in overall survival or the time that the patients remain alive. In the CV setting, a heart disease therapeutic candidate may be evaluated for its ability to reduce LDL-C levels, as an elevated LDL-C level has been a surrogate endpoint for CV events such as death, heart attack and stroke. The use of surrogate endpoints such as PFS and LDL-C reduction, in the absence of other measures of clinical benefit, may not be sufficient for broad usage or approval even when such results are statistically significant. Regulatory authorities could also add new requirements, such as the completion of enrollment in a confirmatory study or the completion of an outcomes study or a meaningful portion of an outcomes study, as conditions for obtaining approval or obtaining an indication. For example, despite demonstrating that Repatha reduced LDL-C levels in a broad patient population, only after our large phase 3 outcomes study evaluating the ability of Repatha to prevent CV events met certain of its primary composite endpoint and key secondary composite endpoint did the FDA grant a broader approval of Repatha to reduce the risk of certain CV events. There may also be situations in which demonstrating the efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to other existing treatment options can be shown. The imposition of additional requirements or our inability to meet them in a timely fashion, or at all, has delayed, and may in the future delay, our clinical development and regulatory filing efforts, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates or new indications for existing products, or prevent us from maintaining our current product labels. Some of our products have been approved by U.S. and ex-U.S. regulatory authorities on an accelerated or conditional basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling the requirements of regulators. For example, in March 2018, we announced that the FDA approved BLINCYTO under accelerated approval for the treatment of certain patients with B-cell precursor ALL. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. Regulatory authorities are placing greater focus on monitoring products originally approved on an accelerated or conditional basis and on whether the sponsors of such products have met the conditions of the accelerated or conditional approvals. If we are unable to fulfill the regulators’ requirements that were conditions of a product’s accelerated or conditional approval and/or if regulators reevaluate the data or risk-benefit profile of our product, the conditional approval may not result in 42   full approval or may be revoked or not renewed. Alternatively, we may be required to change the product’s labeled indications or even withdraw the product from the market. Regulatory authorities can also impose post-marketing pediatric study requirements. Failure to fulfill such requirements may result in regulatory or enforcement action, including financial penalties or the invalidation of a product’s marketing authorization. Safety problems or signals can arise as our products and product candidates are evaluated in clinical trials, including investigator sponsored studies, or as our marketed products are used in clinical practice. We are required continuously to collect and assess adverse events reported to us and to communicate to regulatory agencies these adverse events and safety signals regarding our products. Regulatory agencies periodically perform inspections of our pharmacovigilance processes, including our adverse event reporting. In the United States, for our products with approved REMS (see Item 1. Business-Government Regulation-Postapproval Phase), we are required to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. REMS and other risk management programs are designed to ensure that a drug’s benefits outweigh the risks and vary in the elements they contain. If the FDA is not satisfied with the results of the periodic assessment reports we submit for any of our REMS, the FDA may also modify our REMS or take other regulatory actions, such as implementing revised or restrictive labeling. The drug delivery devices approved for use in combination with our products are also subject to regulatory oversight and review for safety and malfunctions. See Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. If regulatory agencies determine that we or other parties (including our clinical trial investigators, those operating our patient support programs or licensees of our products) have not complied with the applicable reporting, other pharmacovigilance or other safety or quality assessment requirements, we may become subject to additional inspections, warning letters or other enforcement actions, including fines, marketing authorization withdrawal and other penalties. Our product candidates and marketed products can also be affected by safety problems or signals occurring with respect to products that are similar to ours or that implicate an entire class of products. Further, as a result of clinical trials, including sub-analyses or meta-analyses of earlier clinical trials (a meta-analysis involves the use of various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies) performed by us or others, concerns may arise about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying a product’s approved label. Such actual or perceived safety problems or concerns can lead to: • revised or restrictive labeling for our products, or the potential for restrictive labeling that has resulted, and may in the future result, in our decision not to commercialize a product candidate; • requirement of risk management or minimization activities or other regulatory agency compliance actions related to the promotion and sale of our products; • post-marketing commitments, mandated post-marketing requirements or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products; • product recalls of our approved products; • required changes to the processes used in the manufacture of our products, which could increase our manufacturing costs and affect the availability of contract manufacturers we may utilize to assist in such manufacturing; • revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas or patient types; • increased timelines or delays in being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; and/or • treatments or product candidates not being approved by regulatory bodies. For example, after an imbalance in positively adjudicated CV serious adverse events was observed in one of the phase 3 clinical trials for EVENITY but not in another, larger phase 3 study, in April 2019 the FDA approved EVENITY for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk for fracture, along with a post-marketing requirement. The requirement includes a five-year observational feasibility study that could be followed by a comparative safety study or trial. In addition to our innovative products, we are working to develop and commercialize biosimilar versions of a number of products currently manufactured, marketed and sold by other pharmaceutical companies. In some markets, there is not yet a legislative or regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In the United States, the BPCIA provided for such a pathway; while the FDA continues to develop regulatory and scientific policies for biosimilars, discussions continue as to the evidence needed to demonstrate biosimilarity or interchangeability for specific products. See We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future. Delays or uncertainties in the development or implementation of such pathways, or changes in existing regulatory pathways, including degradation of regulatory standards, could result in delays or difficulties in getting our biosimilar products approved by regulatory authorities, subject us to unanticipated development costs or otherwise reduce the value of the investments we have 43   made in the biosimilars area. Further, we cannot predict whether any repeal or reform of the ACA or other legislation or policy initiatives would affect the biosimilar pathway or have a material adverse effect on our development of biosimilars or on our marketed biosimilars. In addition, if we are unable to bring our biosimilar products to market on a timely basis and secure “first-to-market” or other advantageous positions, our future biosimilar sales, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. Many of our products and product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, such as an injector or other delivery system. For example, Neulasta is available as part of the Neulasta Onpro kit, and our AutoTouch reusable autoinjector is used with ENBREL Mini single-dose prefilled cartridges. In addition, some of our products or product candidates, including many of our oncology product candidates and products, including LUMAKRAS, may also require the use of a companion or other diagnostic device such as a device that determines whether the patient is eligible to use our drug or that helps ensure its safe and effective use. In some regions, including the United States, regulatory authorities may require contemporaneous approval of the companion diagnostic device and the therapeutic product; in others the regulatory authorities may require a separate study of the companion diagnostic device. Our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with such devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if development or approval of such devices is delayed, such devices do not also gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance, or if such devices do not remain commercially available. When approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing drug application, the increased complexity of the review process may delay receipt of regulatory approval. In addition, some of these devices may be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies. We are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies to supply and/or market the devices and, in some cases, to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies. We are also dependent on those third-party companies continuing to meet applicable regulatory or other requirements. Failure to successfully develop, modify, or supply the devices, delays in or failures of the Amgen or third-party studies, or failure of us or the third-party companies to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs; delays in, or failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approval; and/or associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or in the addition of new indications for existing products. We are also required to collect and assess user complaints, adverse events and malfunctions regarding our devices, and actual or perceived safety problems or concerns with a device used with our product can lead to regulatory actions and adverse effects on our products. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval . Additionally, regulatory agencies conduct routine monitoring and inspections to identify and evaluate potential issues with our devices. For example, in 2017, the FDA reported on its adverse event reporting system that it was evaluating our Neulasta Onpro kit. Subsequently, we implemented device and labeling enhancements to address product complaints received on this device. We continuously monitor complaints and adverse events and implement additional enhancements as needed. Loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. Further, failure to successfully develop, supply, or gain or maintain approval for these devices could adversely affect sales of the related approved products.  Some of our pharmaceutical pipeline and our commercial product sales rely on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sale of our products. We depend on alliances with other companies, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, vendors and service providers, for the development of a portion of the products in our pharmaceutical pipeline and for the commercialization and sales of certain of our commercial products. For example, we have collaborations with third parties under which we share development rights, obligations and costs and/or commercial rights and obligations. See Item 1. Business-Business Relationships. Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to us or any disruption in the relationships between us and these third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, our collaborative relationships for R&D and/or commercialization and sales often extend for many years and have given, and may in the future give, rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of us and our collaboration partners, including the ownership or prosecution of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of intellectual property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, affect the effective sale and delivery of our commercialized products and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation, administrative proceedings or arbitration. 44   Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. We seek innovation through significant investment in both internal R&D and external transactions, including collaborations, partnering, alliances, licenses, joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions (collectively, acquisition activity). Acquisition activities may be subject to regulatory approvals or other requirements that are not within our control. There can be no assurance that such regulatory or other approvals will be obtained or that all closing conditions required in connection with our acquisition activities will be satisfied or waived, which could result in us being unable to complete the planned acquisition activities. Acquisition activities are complex, time consuming and expensive and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, which may divert our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities and restrict the full realization of the anticipated benefits of such transactions within the expected timeframe or at all. We may pay substantial amounts of cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for acquisition activities, which could adversely affect our liquidity or result in dilution to our stockholders, respectively. Further, failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or in integrating the operations of the businesses, products or assets we acquire (including related technology, commercial operations, compliance programs, manufacturing, distribution and general business operations and procedures) may affect our ability to realize the benefits of the transaction and grow our business and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. These and other challenges may arise in connection with our acquisition of Otezla, Five Prime, Teneobio and/or our collaborations with BeiGene and KKC, or with other acquisition activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. RISKS RELATED TO OPERATIONS We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials. The global supply of our products and product candidates for commercial sales and for use in our clinical trials is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities, in particular those in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and Thousand Oaks, California. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. We currently perform a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing that supports our product candidates at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California. A substantial disruption in our ability to operate our Thousand Oaks manufacturing facility could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, leading to delays in development of our product candidates. In addition, we currently perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. In recent years, Puerto Rico has been affected by natural disasters, including droughts in mid-2020, earthquakes in early 2020 and Hurricane Maria in 2017. These natural disasters have affected, and may continue to affect, public and private properties and Puerto Rico’s electric grid and communications networks in the future. While the critical manufacturing areas of our commercial manufacturing facility were not significantly affected by these natural disasters, the restoration of electrical service on the island after Hurricane Maria was a slow process, and our facility operated with electrical power from backup diesel powered generators for some time. We also operated on backup generators for a few weeks after the early 2020 earthquakes in Puerto Rico. In 2021, the baseload power generation units of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority malfunctioned due to the lack of adequate maintenance for over a decade. The problems experienced by these units, which are among the oldest in North America, have led to selective outages across the island. Further instability of the electric grid and unreliability on the generation units could require us to increase the use of our generators or to continue using them exclusively. In addition, future storms, earthquakes or other natural disasters or events could cause a more significant effect on our manufacturing operations. Puerto Rico and the rest of the world are facing the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated health and economic implications. In March 2020, the Governor of Puerto Rico issued Executive Orders requiring the lockdown of businesses and government facilities, imposing restrictions on business operations and a curfew on residents. Our operations and employees were exempted from the lockdown and curfew, but we cannot predict whether the Governor will issue future Executive Orders imposing stricter lockdown and curfew measures should COVID-19 cases rise in Puerto Rico. Additionally, during the summer of 2021, a labor dispute arose between the maritime terminal operation company and its employees, represented by the International Longshoremen’s Association (ILA), which resulted in a strike that delayed cargo movement from the San Juan Port Zone for several days. Although our ability to manufacture and supply our products has not, 45   to date, been significantly affected by these natural disasters, the unreliability of the electric service, the ILA strike or the COVID-19 pandemic, a combination of these challenges or other issues that could give rise to any substantial disruption to our ability to operate our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility or get supplies and manufactured products transported to and from that location could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our products and affect our product sales. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Hurricane Maria, the earthquakes of early 2020 and the COVID-19 pandemic have placed greater stress on the island’s already challenged economy. Beginning in 2016, the government of Puerto Rico defaulted on its roughly $72 billion in debt. In response, the U.S. Congress passed the PROMESA, which established the FOMBPR to provide fiscal oversight. Title III of PROMESA provides Puerto Rico with a judicial process for restructuring its debt similar to, but not identical to, Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, including a stay of debtholder litigation. In 2017, the FOMBPR approved and certified the filing in the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico of a voluntary petition under Title III of PROMESA for the government of Puerto Rico and certain of its governmental entities, including the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, which recently privatized its transmission and distribution infrastructure. After years of negotiations with bondholders and other creditors, the FOMBPR reached an agreement with the same and presented a Plan of Adjustment to the Title III Court. The Plan of Adjustment requires the Puerto Rico government to enact legislation authorizing the issuance of new bonds in exchange for older bonds and a reduction of the U.S. territory’s debt. On October 26, 2021, Act 53-2021, known as the “Law to End the Bankruptcy of Puerto Rico,” was enacted. From November to December 2021, the Court held several hearings regarding the approval of the Plan of Adjustment, and the Modified Eighth Plan of Adjustment was confirmed by the Court on January 18, 2022, to be effective on March 15, 2022. Each year since 2017, the FOMBPR has updated Puerto Rico’s fiscal plans implementing various measures intended to achieve fiscal responsibility and to restore Puerto Rico’s access to the capital markets, including significant expense reductions and suggested measures for economic growth. Each plan has stressed the need for fiscal and structural reforms to address Puerto Rico’s challenging economic and demographic trends. However, the government has not made significant progress during 2021 on the implementation of the fiscal and structural reforms required in the fiscal plan, in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While the government and the FOMBPR have authorized emergency relief packages due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is uncertain how, or the degree to which, the pandemic will impact Puerto Rico’s fiscal and structural reforms and its economy. In addition, the 2017 Tax Act no longer permits deferral of U.S. taxation on Puerto Rico earnings, although these earnings generally will be taxed in the United States at a reduced rate. Given Puerto Rico’s challenged economy, disaster recovery needs and impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, it may be difficult for Puerto Rico to sustain or grow its manufacturing base, which contributes significantly to Puerto Rico’s economy, due to competition from other locations subject to similar levels of taxation. While PROMESA and the actions above continue to be important factors in moving Puerto Rico toward economic stability, Puerto Rico’s ongoing economic and demographic trend challenges and political situation, the effects of natural disasters, the unreliability of its electric system, the COVID-19 pandemic and the effects of the 2017 Tax Act or other potential tax law changes have negatively affected, and may in the future negatively affect, the territorial government’s provision of utilities or other services in Puerto Rico that we use in the operation of our business and could create the potential for increased taxes or fees to operate in Puerto Rico, result in a migration of workers from Puerto Rico to the mainland United States, or make it more expensive or difficult for us to operate in Puerto Rico. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to supply our products, on our business and on our product sales. We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug applications with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. For example, we rely on a single source for the SureClick autoinjectors used in the drug delivery of Repatha, ENBREL, Aimovig, AMGEVITA and Aranesp. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin. Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include: • regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; • adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier, including bankruptcy; • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components; 46   • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall; • a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restrictions on the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials; • discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components; • cyberattacks on supplier systems; and • labor disputes or shortages, including from the effects of health emergencies (such as novel viruses or pandemics such as the one we are currently experiencing with COVID-19) and natural disasters. For example, in prior years we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility. Further quality issues that result in unexpected additional demand for certain components have resulted in shortages, and in the future may lead to shortages, of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with EPOGEN glass vials). We may experience similar or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, clinical trial delays, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. These or other similar events could negatively affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products or conduct clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Manufacturing biologic and small molecule human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We manufacture many of our commercial products and product candidates internally. In addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our products, and we currently use contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our late-stage product candidates and drug delivery devices. See Item 1. Business-Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials-Manufacturing. Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products (and product candidates to support our clinical trials) is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be affected by: • capacity of manufacturing facilities; • contamination by microorganisms or viruses, or foreign particles from the manufacturing process; • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes or fires; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of health emergencies (such as novel viruses or pandemics such as the one we are currently experiencing with COVID-19) or natural disasters; • compliance with regulatory requirements; • changes in forecasts of future demand; • timing and actual number of production runs and production success rates and yields; • updates of manufacturing specifications; • contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers; • timing and outcome of product quality testing; • power failures and/or other utility failures; • cyberattacks on supplier systems; • breakdown, failure, substandard performance or improper installation or operation of equipment (including our information technology systems and network-connected control systems or those of our contract manufacturers or third-party service providers); and/or • delays in the ability of the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to provide us necessary reviews, inspections and approvals, including as a result of a subsequent extended U.S. federal or other government shutdowns. If any of these or other problems affect production in one or more of our facilities or those of our third-party contract manufacturers, or if we do not accurately forecast demand for our products or the amount of our product candidates required in 47   clinical trials, we may be unable to start or increase production in our unaffected facilities to meet demand. If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, stock-outs, adverse event trends, contract disputes and/or recalls of our products. From time to time, we have initiated recalls of certain lots of our products. For example, in July 2014 we initiated a voluntary recall of an Aranesp lot distributed in the EU after particles were detected in a quality control sample following distribution of that lot, and in April 2018 we initiated a precautionary recall of two batches of Vectibix distributed in Switzerland after potential crimping defects were discovered in the metal seals on some product vials. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes, those of our third-party contract manufacturers and those of certain of our third-party service providers must undergo regulatory approval processes and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build, validate and license another manufacturing plant, and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer or service provider. If we elect or are required to make changes to our manufacturing processes because of new regulatory requirements, new interpretations of existing requirements or other reasons, this could increase our manufacturing costs and result in delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, stock-outs, adverse event trends or contract negotiations or disputes. Such manufacturing challenges may also occur if our existing contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to timely implement such changes, or at all. In addition, regulatory agencies conduct routine monitoring and inspections of our manufacturing facilities and processes as well as those of our third-party contract manufacturers and service providers. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations, they may mandate corrective actions and/or issue warning letters, or even restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, prohibiting us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. See also Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. Such issues may also delay the approval of product candidates we have submitted for regulatory review, even if such product candidates are not directly related to the products, devices or processes at issue with regulators. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, contract disputes, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. Additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through our primary distribution centers in Louisville, Kentucky for the United States and in Breda, Netherlands for Europe and much of the rest of the world. We also conduct most of the labeling and packaging of our products distributed in Europe and much of the rest of the world in Breda. Our ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers, our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and packaging facility in Breda. Further, we rely on commercial transportation, including air and sea freight, for the distribution of our products to our customers, which may be negatively affected by natural disasters, security threats and/or the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. There have also been legislative and administrative proposals seeking to incentivize greater drug manufacturing in the United States with the stated goal of improving supply reliability in the United States. For example, on August 6, 2020, the previous Administration issued an Executive Order aimed at boosting domestic production of essential medicines, medical countermeasures, and critical inputs titled “Executive Order on Ensuring Essential Medicines, Medical Countermeasures, and Critical Inputs are Made in the United States.” Additionally, one legislative proposal would prohibit the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs from purchasing certain drugs that have active pharmaceutical ingredients manufactured outside the United States. While we perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities in the United States, including in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California, the passage of such legislation could result in foreign governments enacting retaliatory legislation or regulatory actions, which may have an adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Our business and operations may be negatively affected by the failure, or perceived failure, of achieving our environmental, social and governance objectives. We continue to work towards operating our business in an environmentally responsible and socially inclusive manner. Stakeholders, including our investors and our employees, have increasingly focused on, and are expected to continue to focus 48   on, our ESG practices. If our ESG practices fail to meet these stakeholders’ expectations and standards, there could be a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and, ultimately, our stock price. Our ESG report is made available on our website and describes our ESG goals and the progress we have made on the ESG issues deemed most important to our external and internal stakeholders, based on surveys, interviews and certain frameworks for corporate responsibility. Achieving our ESG goals requires long-term investments and broad, coordinated activity, and we may be required to incur additional costs or allocate additional resources towards monitoring, reporting and implementing our ESG practices. Further, we may fail to accurately assess our stakeholders’ ESG priorities, as such priorities have evolved and will continue to evolve. While we have achieved most of our goals set in prior years, whether we can achieve our current and future ESG goals continues to be uncertain and remains subject to numerous risks, including evolving regulatory requirements and social expectations affecting ESG practices, our ability to recruit, develop and retain a diverse workforce, the availability of suppliers and collaboration partners that can meet our ESG goals, the effects of the organic growth of our business and potential acquisitions of other businesses on our ESG performance, and the availability and cost of technologies or resources, such as carbon credits, that support our goals. Any failure or perceived failure to meet our ESG program priorities could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and stock price. The effects of global climate change and related natural disasters could negatively affect our business and operations. Many of our operations and facilities, including those essential to our manufacturing, R&D and distribution activities, are in locations that are subject to natural disasters, including droughts, fires, hurricanes, tropical storms, and/or floods. For example, in 2017 Hurricane Maria caused catastrophic damage to the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, where we perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities. Although our site was well-protected and suffered minimal damage, there can be no assurances that we would have similar results in the face of future natural disasters. The severity and frequency of weather-related natural disasters has been amplified, and is expected to continue to be amplified by, global climate change. Such natural disasters have caused, and in the future may cause, damage to and/or disrupt our operations, which may result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Our suppliers, vendors and business partners also face similar risks, and any disruption to their operations could have an adverse effect on our supply and manufacturing chain. Further, many of our key facilities are located on islands, including Puerto Rico, Singapore and Ireland, which rely on essential port facilities that may be vulnerable to climate change-related or other natural disasters. Although we have detailed business continuity plans in place and periodic assessments of our natural disaster risk, any natural disaster may also result in prolonged interruption to our critical operational and business activities, and we may be required to incur significant costs to remedy the effects of such natural disasters and fully resume operations, which may result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. See We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials and Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by global economic conditions. The economic downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic has precipitated a global recession which may be of an extended duration. Additionally, financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment measures. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. As a result of global economic conditions, some third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. Job losses or other economic hardships (including inflation) may also affect patients’ ability to afford health care as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. We believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. The current inflationary environment related to increased aggregate demand and supply chain constraints have also increased our operating expenses and may continue to affect our operating expenses. Economic conditions may also adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. Although we monitor our distributors’, customers’ and suppliers’ financial condition and their liquidity to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. A significant worsening of global economic conditions could materially increase these risks we face. 49   We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheets. The global spread of COVID-19 has also led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets. We have certain assets, including equity investments, that are exposed to market fluctuations that could, in a sustained or recurrent series of market disruptions, result in impairments. The value of our investments may also be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, inflation, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors that may result in other-than-temporary declines in the value of our investments. Any of those events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on sales of investments. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events such as a delay in product development, changes to our expectations or strategy or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. Announcements or discussions, including via social media channels, of possible restrictive actions by government or private payers that would negatively affect our business or industry if ultimately enacted or adopted may also cause our stock price to fluctuate, whether or not such restrictive actions ever actually occur. Similarly, actual or perceived safety issues with our products or similar products or unexpected clinical trial results can have an immediate and rapid effect on our stock price, whether or not our operating results are materially affected. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption, which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. For example, early in 2020, there were significant disruptions in the commercial paper market and several borrowers were unable to obtain funding at normal rates or maturities, which resulted in a significant increase in draws of corporate credit lines with banks. Similarly, the bond markets experienced extreme volatility in terms of interest rates and credit spreads, with several days without new issuances of corporate bonds. We expect to access the capital markets, from time to time, to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations in satisfying our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock; and other business initiatives we strategically plan to pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit-rating agencies could adversely affect our ability to obtain capital market financing and the cost of such financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.   Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None. 50    Item 2. PROPERTIES   As of December 31, 2021, we owned or leased approximately 160 properties. The locations and primary functions of significant properties are summarized in the following tables:  U.S. Location: Manufacturing Administrative R&D Sales & marketing Warehouse Distribution center Thousand Oaks, CA* P P P P P P San Francisco, CA P Louisville, KY P P Cambridge, MA P Juncos, Puerto Rico P P P P West Greenwich, RI P P P Tampa, FL P Other U.S. cities P P  * Corporate headquarters  ROW Location: Manufacturing Administrative R&D Sales & marketing Warehouse Distribution center Brazil P P P P P Canada P P P China P P Denmark P P P Germany P P P Iceland P P Ireland P P P P Japan P P Netherlands P P P P P Singapore P P P P Switzerland P P Turkey P P P P P United Kingdom P P P Other countries P P P P  Excluded from the information above are (i) undeveloped land and leased properties that have been abandoned and (ii) certain buildings we still own but that are no longer used in our business. There are no material encumbrances on our owned properties. We believe our facilities are suitable for their intended uses and, in conjunction with our third-party contract manufacturing agreements, provide adequate capacity and are sufficient to meet our expected needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products. See Item 1. Business-Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials.  Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   Certain of the legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements and are hereby incorporated by reference.   Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   Not applicable. 51   PART II   Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  Common stock Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol AMGN. As of February 11, 2022, there were approximately 5,069 holders of record of our common stock. Performance graph The following graph shows the value of an investment of $100 on December 31, 2016, in each of Amgen common stock, the Amex Biotech Index, the Amex Pharmaceutical Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. All values assume reinvestment of the pretax value of dividends and are calculated as of December 31 of each year. The historical stock price performance of the Company’s common stock shown in the performance graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.   12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 Amgen (AMGN) $100.00 $122.32 $140.76 $179.65 $176.05 $177.59 Amex Biotech (BTK) $100.00 $137.81 $138.18 $166.41 $189.00 $182.34 Amex Pharmaceutical (DRG) $100.00 $116.63 $125.31 $148.36 $161.31 $199.02 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX) $100.00 $121.89 $116.56 $153.26 $181.44 $233.47  52   The material in the above performance graph is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not incorporated by reference in any filing of the Company under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, whether made on, before or after the date of this filing and irrespective of any general incorporation language in such filing. Stock repurchase program During the three months and year ended December 31, 2021, we had one outstanding stock repurchase program, under which the repurchasing activity was as follows:  Totalnumber ofsharespurchased Average price paid per share (1) Total numberof sharespurchased aspart ofpubliclyannouncedprogram Maximum dollar value that may yet be purchased under the program (2) October 1 - October 31 1,874,976 $ 208.06 1,874,976 $ 6,960,277,756 November 1 - November 30 2,484,905 $ 208.35 2,484,905 $ 6,442,554,907 December 1 - December 31 2,559,300 $ 216.14 2,559,300 $ 10,889,377,513 6,919,181 $ 211.15 6,919,181 January 1 - December 31 21,730,283 $ 229.50 21,730,283  (1) Average price paid per share includes related expenses. (2) In October 2021 and December 2021, our Board of Directors increased the amount authorized under the stock repurchase program by an additional $4.5 billion and an additional $5.0 billion, respectively. Dividends For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we paid quarterly dividends. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although the amount and timing of any future dividends are subject to approval by our Board of Directors. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Part IV-Note 16, Stockholders’ equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Existing Equity Compensation Plans Information about securities authorized for issuance under existing equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference from Item 12-Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Existing Equity Compensation Plans.   Item 6. RESERVED   53    Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  The following MD&A is intended to assist the reader in understanding Amgen’s business. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our results of operations discussed in MD&A are presented in conformity with GAAP. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics. Therefore, our results of operations are discussed on a consolidated basis. Forward-looking statements This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases, written statements or our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls. Such words as “expect,” “anticipate,” “outlook,” “could,” “target,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “should,” “may,” “assume” and “continue” as well as variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and they involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We describe our respective risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect the outcome or results of operations in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements regarding product sales, regulatory activities, clinical trial results, reimbursement, expenses, EPS, liquidity and capital resources, trends, planned dividends, stock repurchases, collaborations and effects of pandemics. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. 54   Overview Amgen is a biotechnology company committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen has grown to be one of the world’s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential. Our principal products are ENBREL, Prolia, Otezla, XGEVA, Neulasta, Aranesp, Repatha, KYPROLIS and Nplate. We also market a number of other products, including MVASI, Vectibix, KANJINTI, EVENITY, EPOGEN, BLINCYTO, AMGEVITA, Aimovig, Parsabiv, NEUPOGEN, LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS, Sensipar/Mimpara and TEZSPIRE. For additional information about our products, see Part I, Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products. Our strategy includes integrated activities intended to maintain and strengthen our competitive position in the industry. We focus on six commercial areas: inflammation, oncology/hematology, bone health, CV disease, nephrology and neuroscience. And we conduct discovery research primarily in three therapeutic areas: inflammation, oncology/hematology and general medicine. In 2021, we advanced our innovative pipeline, launched new products, completed several strategic transactions to augment our pipeline and research capabilities, and continued providing uninterrupted supplies of our medicines globally through the second year of the COVID-19 pandemic. We accomplished these objectives while maintaining a strategic and disciplined approach to capital allocation and while advancing our ESG efforts. In 2021, we continued to advance our pipeline, including achieving key regulatory approvals for LUMAKRAS and TEZSPIRE. Our external business development activities for 2021 included: (i) acquiring Five Prime, including a later-stage gastric cancer bemarituzumab program; (ii) entering into a license agreement with KKC to develop a later-stage molecule for atopic dermatitis and other diseases; and (iii) acquiring Teneobio for its proprietary technologies and oncology programs in development. We also continued to advance our biosimilar program with the launch of RIABNI in the United States and introduced our other biosimilars into new markets. Our biosimilars are expected to continue launching in new markets throughout 2022. During 2021, while meeting the challenges of a global pandemic and facing increased competition from biosimilars and generics, total product sales were relatively flat as volume growth was offset by lower net selling prices. Product sales decreased 4% in the United States, driven by lower net selling prices, partially offset by volume growth, and increased 12% ROW, driven by volume growth, partially offset by lower net selling prices. Total operating expenses increased 13%, driven by IPR&D expense from the Five Prime acquisition and the upfront payment associated with the KKC licensing agreement. Cash flows from operating activities totaled $9.3 billion, which supported investment in our business while returning capital to shareholders through the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases. For 2021, we increased our quarterly cash dividend by 10% to $1.76 per share of common stock. In December 2021, we declared a cash dividend of $1.94 per share of common stock for the first quarter of 2022, an increase of 10% for this period, to be paid in March 2022. We also repurchased 21.7 million shares of our common stock during 2021 at an aggregate cost of $5.0 billion. In 2021, we issued $4.9 billion and repaid $4.2 billion of debt that was coming due in 2022. Amgen’s approach to, and investment in, human capital resource management is directed at attracting, motivating, developing and retaining talent to tackle the challenges of running an enterprise focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines. Our compensation, benefits and development programs are designed to encourage performance, promote accountability and adherence to Company values, and align with the interests of the Company’s shareholders. Further, we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture fosters innovation, which supports our ability to serve patients. We are engaging in activities and setting goals to improve our focus on diversity, inclusion and belonging. For further information on these and other efforts, see Part I, Item 1. Business-Human Capital Resources. We have a long-standing ambition to be environmentally responsible, and we regularly set targets to challenge ourselves to deliver further improvements. In 2020, we met or exceeded our environmental sustainability targets set out in 2013 that called for reducing fleet carbon output by up to 20%, facility carbon output by 10%, water consumption by 10% and waste disposal by 35%. 2 We achieved our 2020 targets while growing revenues, increasing production capacity and expanding to approximately 100 countries over the same 2013–20 period. To continue on our path to greater environmental sustainability, in January 2021 we announced a new set of long-term environmental targets to achieve by 2027, including achieving carbon neutrality, reducing water consumption by 40% and reducing waste disposed by 75%. 2, 3 2 Represents reductions against established baselines, taking into account only verified reduction projects, and does not take into account changes associated with contraction or expansion of the Company. 3 Carbon neutrality goal refers to Scope 1 and 2. 55   Our long-term success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to continue to discover, develop and commercialize innovative products and acquire or collaborate on therapies currently in development by other companies. We must develop new products to achieve revenue growth and to offset revenue losses from when products lose their exclusivity or when competing products are launched. Certain of our products face increasing pressure from competition, including biosimilars and generics. For additional information, including information on the expirations of patents for various products, see Part I, Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Patents, and Part I, Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Competition. We devote considerable resources to R&D activities, but successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain. We also face increasing regulatory scrutiny of safety and efficacy both before and after products launch. Rising healthcare costs and uncertain economic conditions continue to pose challenges to our business, including increasing pressure by third-party payers, such as governments and private payers, to reduce healthcare expenditures. As a result of public and private healthcare-provider focus, the industry continues to be subject to cost containment measures and significant pricing pressures, including net price declines. Finally, wholesale and end-user buying patterns can affect our product sales. These buying patterns can cause fluctuations in quarterly product sales but have generally not been significant to date when comparing full-year product performance to the prior year. See Part I, Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products, and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of certain factors that could impact our future product sales. COVID-19 pandemic Since the onset of the pandemic in 2020, we have been closely monitoring the pandemic’s effects on our global operations. We continue to take appropriate steps to minimize risks to our employees, a significant number of whom have continued to work virtually. Employee access to company facilities has been in accordance with applicable government health and safety protocols and guidance issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. To date, our remote working arrangements have not significantly affected our ability to maintain critical business operations, and we have not experienced disruptions to or shortages of our supply of medicines. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have seen changes in demand for some of our products driven by changes in the frequency of patient visits to doctors’ offices that has impacted the provision of treatments to existing patients and reduced diagnoses in new patients. During 2021, there was gradual recovery in both patient visits and diagnoses that approached pre-COVID-19 levels early in the fourth quarter. However late in 2021, the Omicron variant began to impact the healthcare sector and as a result we expect ongoing variability in demand patterns in the first half of 2022. The cumulative decrease in diagnoses over the course of the pandemic has suppressed the volume of new patients starting treatment, which we expect to continue to impact our business. We will continue to closely monitor the effects of emerging COVID-19 variants on patient behavior and access to care. Since early 2021, global vaccination efforts have been under way to control the pandemic. However, uncertainty remains as to the length of time required for vaccination of a meaningful portion of the population and as to the efficacy of such vaccinations with regard to the trajectory of the pandemic. Challenges to vaccination efforts, new variants and other causes of virus spread may require governments to issue additional restrictions and/or order shutdowns in various geographies. As a result, we expect to see continued volatility for at least the duration of the pandemic as governments respond to current local conditions. With respect to our drug development activities, we are continuously monitoring COVID-19 infection rates, including changes from new variants, and working to mitigate effects on future study enrollment in our clinical trials and evaluating the impacts in all countries where our clinical trials occur. We remain focused on supporting our active clinical sites in their provision of care to patients and in our provision of investigational drug supply. Despite the ongoing pandemic and business impacts noted above, we believe that existing funds, cash generated from operations and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our needs for working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements as well as to engage in capital-return and other business initiatives that we plan to pursue. For a discussion of the risks the COVID-19 pandemic presents to our results, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 56   Selected Financial Information The following is an overview of our results of operations (in millions, except percentages and per-share data):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Product sales: U.S. $ 17,286 (4) % $ 17,985 ROW 7,011 12 % 6,255 Total product sales 24,297 - % 24,240 Other revenues 1,682 42 % 1,184 Total revenues $ 25,979 2 % $ 25,424 Operating expenses $ 18,340 13 % $ 16,285 Operating income $ 7,639 (16) % $ 9,139 Net income $ 5,893 (19) % $ 7,264 Diluted EPS $ 10.28 (16) % $ 12.31 Diluted shares 573 (3) % 590  In the following discussion of changes in product sales, any reference to unit demand growth or decline refers to changes in the purchases of our products by healthcare providers (such as physicians or their clinics), dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In addition, any reference to increases or decreases in inventory refers to changes in inventory held by wholesaler customers and end users (such as pharmacies). Total product sales were relatively flat for 2021, as volume growth was offset by declines in net selling prices. For 2022, we expect that net selling prices will continue to decline at a portfolio level driven by increased competition. Further, the first quarter of a year historically represents the lowest product sales quarter for the year, in part due to plan changes, insurance reverifications and higher co-pay expenses as U.S. patients work through deductibles, particularly for products acquired through pharmacy benefit programs. Throughout the pandemic, we experienced changes in demand for some of our products. The pandemic has interrupted many physician–patient interactions, which has led to delays in diagnoses and treatments, with varying degrees of impact across our portfolio. In general, declines in the sales of our products that were impacted by the dynamics of the pandemic were most significant in the early months of the pandemic with product demand beginning to show some recovery in late 2020. During 2021, we observed gradual recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, with patient visits and diagnosis rates that approached pre-pandemic levels early in the fourth quarter. However, late in the year, the Omicron variant began to impact the healthcare sector and as a result, we have seen some shift back to virtual engagement by our field staff and variability in demand patterns. The cumulative decrease in diagnoses over the course of the pandemic has suppressed the volume of new patients starting treatment, which we expect to continue to impact our business. Given the unpredictable nature of the pandemic, we expect there could be ongoing intermittent disruptions in physician–patient interactions, and as a result, we continue to expect quarter-to-quarter variability. In addition, other changes in the healthcare ecosystem have the potential to introduce variability into product sales trends. For example, changes in U.S. employment have led to changes to the insured population. Growth in numbers of Medicaid enrollees and uninsured individuals may have a negative impact on product demand and sales. Overall, uncertainty remains around the timing and magnitude of our sales during the COVID-19 pandemic. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. Other revenues increased for 2021, primarily driven by the sale of COVID-19 antibody material resulting from our manufacturing collaboration. Operating expenses increased for 2021, driven by IPR&D expense related to the bemarituzumab program acquired as part of the Five Prime acquisition and by the upfront payment associated with the KKC licensing agreement. Although changes in foreign currency exchange rates result in increases or decreases in our reported international product sales, the benefit or detriment that such movements have on our international product sales is partially offset by corresponding increases or decreases in our international operating expenses and our related foreign currency hedging activities. Our hedging activities seek to offset the impacts, both positive and negative, that foreign currency exchange rate changes may have on our net income by hedging our net foreign currency exposure, primarily with respect to product sales denominated in euros. The net impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates was not material in 2021, 2020 or 2019.  57   Results of Operations Product sales Worldwide product sales were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 ENBREL $ 4,465 (11) % $ 4,996 (4) % $ 5,226 Prolia 3,248 18 % 2,763 3 % 2,672 Otezla 2,249 2 % 2,195 * 178 XGEVA 2,018 6 % 1,899 (2) % 1,935 Neulasta 1,734 (24) % 2,293 (29) % 3,221 Aranesp 1,480 (6) % 1,568 (9) % 1,729 Repatha 1,117 26 % 887 34 % 661 KYPROLIS 1,108 4 % 1,065 2 % 1,044 Nplate 1,027 21 % 850 7 % 795 Other products 5,851 2 % 5,724 21 % 4,743 Total product sales $ 24,297 - % $ 24,240 9 % $ 22,204 Total U.S. $ 17,286 (4) % $ 17,985 9 % $ 16,531 Total ROW 7,011 12 % 6,255 10 % 5,673 Total product sales $ 24,297 - % $ 24,240 9 % $ 22,204  * Change in excess of 100%. Future sales of our products will depend in part on the factors discussed in the Overview, Part I, Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Competition, in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and any additional factors discussed in the individual product sections below. In addition, for a list of our products’ significant competitors, see Part I, Item 1. Business-Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products-Competition. ENBREL Total ENBREL sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 ENBREL - U.S. $ 4,352 (10) % $ 4,855 (4) % $ 5,050 ENBREL - Canada 113 (20) % 141 (20) % 176 Total ENBREL $ 4,465 (11) % $ 4,996 (4) % $ 5,226  The decrease in ENBREL sales for 2021 was driven by lower net selling price, unit demand and unfavorable changes in inventory. For 2022, we expect ENBREL to follow the historical pattern of lower sales in the first quarter relative to subsequent quarters due to the impact of benefit plan changes, insurance reverification and increased co-pay expenses as U.S. patients work through deductibles. In addition, for 2022, we expect net selling price to decline. The decrease in ENBREL sales for 2020 was driven by lower unit demand and net selling price, partially offset by favorable changes to estimated sales deductions and inventory. 58   Prolia Total Prolia sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Prolia - U.S. $ 2,150 17 % $ 1,830 3 % $ 1,772 Prolia - ROW 1,098 18 % 933 4 % 900 Total Prolia $ 3,248 18 % $ 2,763 3 % $ 2,672  The increase in global Prolia sales for 2021 was primarily driven by higher unit demand. The increase in global Prolia sales for 2020 was driven by higher unit demand and net selling price. Otezla Total Otezla sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Otezla - U.S. $ 1,804 1 % $ 1,790 * $ 139 Otezla - ROW 445 10 % 405 * 39 Total Otezla $ 2,249 2 % $ 2,195 * $ 178  * Change in excess of 100%. The increase in global Otezla sales for 2021 was driven by higher unit demand, partially offset by lower net selling price and unfavorable changes to inventory. For 2022, we expect Otezla to follow the historical pattern of lower sales in the first quarter relative to subsequent quarters due to the impact of benefit plan changes, insurance reverification and increased co-pay expenses as U.S. patients work through deductibles. Otezla was acquired on November 21, 2019, and generated $2.2 billion and $178 million in global sales for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. For a discussion of ongoing litigation related to Otezla, see Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. XGEVA Total XGEVA sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 XGEVA - U.S. $ 1,434 2 % $ 1,405 (4) % $ 1,457 XGEVA - ROW 584 18 % 494 3 % 478 Total XGEVA $ 2,018 6 % $ 1,899 (2) % $ 1,935  The increase in global XGEVA sales for 2021 was primarily driven by higher unit demand, partially offset by lower net selling price. The decrease in global XGEVA sales for 2020 was driven by lower unit demand as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 59   Neulasta Total Neulasta sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Neulasta - U.S. $ 1,514 (24) % $ 2,001 (29) % $ 2,814 Neulasta - ROW 220 (25) % 292 (28) % 407 Total Neulasta $ 1,734 (24) % $ 2,293 (29) % $ 3,221  The decreases in global Neulasta sales for 2021 and 2020 was primarily driven by lower net selling price and unit demand. Increased competition as a result of biosimilar versions of Neulasta has had and will continue to have a significant adverse impact on brand sales, including accelerating net price erosion and lower unit demand. We also expect other biosimilar versions, including biosimilars that will use an on-body injector that would compete with our Onpro injector, to be approved in the future. For a discussion of ongoing patent litigations related to biosimilars, see Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Aranesp Total Aranesp sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Aranesp - U.S. $ 537 (15) % $ 629 (17) % $ 758 Aranesp - ROW 943 - % 939 (3) % 971 Total Aranesp $ 1,480 (6) % $ 1,568 (9) % $ 1,729  The decrease in global Aranesp sales for 2021 was primarily driven by lower net selling price due to competition. The decrease in global Aranesp sales for 2020 was driven by declines in net selling price and unit demand. Aranesp continues to face competition from a long-acting ESA and from a biosimilar version of EPOGEN, which will continue to impact sales in the future. Repatha Total Repatha sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Repatha - U.S. $ 557 21 % $ 459 22 % $ 376 Repatha - ROW 560 31 % 428 50 % 285 Total Repatha $ 1,117 26 % $ 887 34 % $ 661  The increases in global Repatha sales for 2021 and 2020 was driven by higher unit demand, partially offset by lower net selling price. Contracting changes to improve Medicare Part D patient access resulted in the decrease to net selling price. For a discussion of ongoing litigation related to Repatha, see Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 60   KYPROLIS Total KYPROLIS sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 KYPROLIS - U.S. $ 736 4 % $ 710 9 % $ 654 KYPROLIS - ROW 372 5 % 355 (9) % 390 Total KYPROLIS $ 1,108 4 % $ 1,065 2 % $ 1,044  The increase in global KYPROLIS sales for 2021 was primarily driven by higher unit demand. The increase in global KYPROLIS sales for 2020 was primarily driven by an increase in net selling price and favorable changes in inventory, partially offset by lower unit demand. The FDA has reported that it has granted tentative or final approval of ANDAs for generic carfilzomib products filed by a number of companies. The date of approval of those ANDAs for generic carfilzomib products is governed by the Hatch–Waxman Act and any applicable settlement agreements between us and certain companies that seek to develop generic carfilzomib products. Nplate Total Nplate sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Nplate - U.S. $ 566 17 % $ 485 1 % $ 480 Nplate - ROW 461 26 % 365 16 % 315 Total Nplate $ 1,027 21 % $ 850 7 % $ 795  The increases in global Nplate sales for 2021 and 2020 was primarily driven by higher unit demand. 61   Other products Other product sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 MVASI - U.S. $ 826 26 % $ 656 * $ 121 MVASI - ROW 340 * 142 * 6 Vectibix - U.S. 347 1 % 342 8 % 316 Vectibix - ROW 526 12 % 469 10 % 428 KANJINTI - U.S. 479 1 % 475 * 118 KANJINTI - ROW 93 1 % 92 (15) % 108 EVENITY - U.S. 331 73 % 191 * 42 EVENITY - ROW 199 25 % 159 8 % 147 EPOGEN - U.S. 521 (13) % 598 (31) % 867 BLINCYTO - U.S. 278 20 % 231 31 % 176 BLINCYTO - ROW 194 31 % 148 9 % 136 AMGEVITA - ROW 439 33 % 331 54 % 215 Aimovig - U.S. 313 (17) % 378 24 % 306 Aimovig - ROW 4 N/A - N/A - Parsabiv - U.S. 150 (75) % 605 10 % 550 Parsabiv- ROW 130 17 % 111 39 % 80 NEUPOGEN - U.S. 101 (30) % 144 (19) % 178 NEUPOGEN - ROW 67 (17) % 81 (6) % 86 LUMAKRAS - U.S. 82 N/A - N/A - LUMYKRAS - ROW 8 N/A - N/A - Sensipar - U.S. 6 (93) % 92 (63) % 252 Sensipar/Mimpara - ROW 78 (60) % 196 (34) % 299 Other - U.S. 202 85 % 109 4 % 105 Other - ROW 137 (21) % 174 (16) % 207 Total other product sales $ 5,851 2 % $ 5,724 21 % $ 4,743 Total U.S. - other products $ 3,636 (5) % $ 3,821 26 % $ 3,031 Total ROW - other products 2,215 16 % 1,903 11 % 1,712 Total other product sales $ 5,851 2 % $ 5,724 21 % $ 4,743  * Change in excess of 100%. N/A = not applicable 62   Operating expenses Operating expenses were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Year ended December 31, 2021 Change Year ended December 31, 2020 Change Year ended December 31, 2019 Cost of sales $ 6,454 5 % $ 6,159 41 % $ 4,356 % of product sales 26.6 % 25.4 % 19.6 % % of total revenues 24.8 % 24.2 % 18.6 % Research and development $ 4,819 15 % $ 4,207 2 % $ 4,116 % of product sales 19.8 % 17.4 % 18.5 % % of total revenues 18.5 % 16.5 % 17.6 % Acquired in-process research and development $ 1,505 N/A $ - N/A $ - % of product sales 6.2 % - % - % % of total revenues 5.8 % - % - % Selling, general and administrative $ 5,368 (6) % $ 5,730 11 % $ 5,150 % of product sales 22.1 % 23.6 % 23.2 % % of total revenues 20.7 % 22.5 % 22.0 % Other $ 194 3 % $ 189 * $ 66 Total operating expenses $ 18,340 13 % $ 16,285 19 % $ 13,688  * Change in excess of 100% N/A = not applicable Cost of sales Cost of sales increased to 24.8% of total revenues for 2021, driven by unfavorable product mix and higher profit share and royalties, partially offset by lower amortization expense from acquisition-related assets and lower manufacturing costs. Cost of sales increased to 24.2% of total revenues for 2020, primarily driven by the amortization of expenses related to our acquisition of Otezla and by higher royalty expenses and profit share, partially offset by lower manufacturing costs. Research and development The Company groups all of its R&D activities and related expenditures into three categories: (i) research and early pipeline, (ii) later-stage clinical programs and (iii) marketed products. These categories are described below:  Category Description Research and early pipeline R&D expenses incurred in activities substantially in support of early research through the completion of phase 1 clinical trials, including drug discovery, toxicology, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism, and process development Later-stage clinical programs R&D expenses incurred in or related to phase 2 and phase 3 clinical programs intended to result in registration of a new product or a new indication for an existing product primarily in the United States or the EU Marketed products R&D expenses incurred in support of the Company’s marketed products that are authorized to be sold primarily in the United States or the EU. Includes clinical trials designed to gather information on product safety (certain of which may be required by regulatory authorities) and their product characteristics after regulatory approval has been obtained, as well as the costs of obtaining regulatory approval of a product in a new market after approval in either the United States or the EU has been obtained  63   R&D expense by category was as follows (in millions):  Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Research and early pipeline $ 1,670 $ 1,405 $ 1,649 Later-stage clinical programs 1,726 1,365 1,062 Marketed products 1,423 1,437 1,405 Total R&D expense $ 4,819 $ 4,207 $ 4,116  The increase in R&D expense for 2021 was driven by a licensing-related expense from our collaboration with KKC included in later-stage clinical programs and higher spend in research and early pipeline, including other business development activities. The increase in R&D expense for 2020 was driven by higher spend for later-stage clinical programs, including LUMAKRAS, biosimilar programs and Otezla, and higher spend for Otezla included in marketed-product support. These increases were partially offset by recoveries from our collaboration with BeiGene that reduced expenses in later-stage clinical programs and in research and early pipeline, and lower spend in certain oncology programs included in research and early pipeline. Acquired in-process research and development Acquired IPR&D expense for 2021 was related to the bemarituzumab program acquired as part of the Five Prime acquisition. Selling, general and administrative The decrease in SG&A expense for 2021 was primarily driven by lower spend for marketed products and lower general and administrative expenses. The increase in SG&A expense for 2020 was driven by investments in certain marketed products, primarily Otezla, and preparation for product launches, partially offset by a reduction in conference-related expenses due to the impact of COVID-19. Other Other operating expenses for 2021 primarily consisted of expenses related to cost-savings initiatives and a legal judgment. Other operating expenses for 2020 primarily consisted of legal settlement expenses. Other operating expenses for 2019 primarily consisted of expenses related to cost-savings initiatives. Nonoperating expenses/income and income taxes Nonoperating expenses/income and income taxes were as follows (dollar amounts in millions):  Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Interest expense, net $ (1,197) $ (1,262) $ (1,289) Other income, net $ 259 $ 256 $ 753 Provision for income taxes $ 808 $ 869 $ 1,296 Effective tax rate 12.1 % 10.7 % 14.2 %  Interest expense, net The decrease in Interest expense, net, for 2021 was primarily due to net higher costs associated with the early retirement of debt in 2020 and lower LIBOR rates in 2021 on debt for which we effectively pay a variable rate of interest through the use of interest rate swaps, partially offset by higher overall debt outstanding. The decrease in Interest expense, net, for 2020 was primarily due to lower LIBOR rates on debt for which we effectively pay a variable rate of interest, partially offset by net costs associated with the early retirement of debt. 64   Other income, net The increase in Other income, net, for 2021 was primarily due to lower losses incurred in connection with our BeiGene investment compared with 2020, partially offset by lower income on our interest-bearing investments in 2021 and other nonrecurring gains recognized in 2020. The decrease in Other income, net, for 2020 was primarily due to reduced interest income as a result of lower average cash balances and a decline in interest yields and losses incurred in connection with our BeiGene investment, partially offset by gains recognized on our investments in publicly traded equity securities and limited partnerships. See Part IV-Note 9, Investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income taxes The increase in our effective tax rate for 2021 compared with 2020 was primarily driven by the non-deductible IPR&D expense arising from the acquisition of Five Prime, partially offset by earnings mix and adjustments to prior-year tax liabilities. The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2020 compared with 2019 was primarily driven by favorable items, including audit settlements, adjustments to prior-year tax liabilities, lower interest expense on uncertain tax positions and amortization related to the Otezla acquisition, partially offset by changes in valuation allowance. The Administration proposed and Congress is considering significant changes to existing tax law. These changes, if enacted, could substantially increase taxes we pay to the U.S. government. Further, the OECD recently reached agreement to align countries on a minimum corporate tax rate and an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries. If enacted, this agreement could result in tax increases in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Treasury recently released final foreign tax credit regulations that eliminate U.S. creditability of the Puerto Rico Excise Tax beginning in 2023, which will increase our U.S. tax liability. The U.S. territory of Puerto Rico is considering changes to its tax system that may minimize or eliminate this impact, but the outcome of such potential changes is uncertain. Changes to existing tax law in the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, or other jurisdictions, including the potential changes discussed above, could result in tax increases where we do business and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. In 2017, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest two duplicate Notices for 2010, 2011 and 2012 that we received in May and July 2021 which seek to increase our U.S. taxable income. The Notices seek to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $3.6 billion plus interest. Any additional tax that could be imposed would be reduced by up to approximately $900 million of repatriation tax previously accrued on our foreign earnings. We firmly believe that the IRS’s positions set forth in the Notices are without merit, and we are contesting the Notices through the judicial process. In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico similar to those proposed for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office. We were unable to reach resolution at the administrative appeals level, and we anticipate that we will receive a statutory notice of deficiency for these years as well. We expect to contest any such notice related to 2013–15 through the judicial process. We are also currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 and by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex matters is not likely within the next 12 months. We believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and the uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors- The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability; 7. MD&A-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Income taxes; and Part IV-Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.   65   Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Selected financial data was as follows (in millions):  December 31, 2021 2020 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 8,037 $ 10,647 Total assets $ 61,165 $ 62,948 Current portion of long-term debt $ 87 $ 91 Long-term debt $ 33,222 $ 32,895 Stockholders’ equity $ 6,700 $ 9,409  Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities Our balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was $8.0 billion at December 31, 2021. The primary objective of our investment portfolio is to maintain safety of principal, prudent levels of liquidity and acceptable levels of risk. Our investment policy limits interest-bearing security investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions with primarily investment-grade credit ratings, and it places restrictions on maturities and concentration by asset class and issuer. Capital allocation Consistent with the objective to optimize our capital structure, we deploy our accumulated cash balances in a strategic manner and consider a number of alternatives, including strategic transactions (including those that expand our portfolio of products in areas of therapeutic interest), repayment of debt, payment of dividends and stock repurchases. We intend to continue investing in our business while returning capital to stockholders through the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases, thereby reflecting our confidence in the future cash flows of our business and our desire to optimize our cost of capital. The timing and amount of future dividends and stock repurchases will vary based on a number of factors, including future capital requirements for strategic transactions, availability of financing on acceptable terms, debt service requirements, our credit rating, changes to applicable tax laws or corporate laws, changes to our business model and periodic determination by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interests of stockholders and are in compliance with applicable laws and the Company’s agreements. In addition, the timing and amount of stock repurchases may also be affected by our overall level of cash, stock price and blackout periods, during which we are restricted from repurchasing stock. The manner of stock repurchases may include block purchases, tender offers, accelerated share repurchases and market transactions. The Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $1.76, $1.60 and $1.45 per share of common stock paid in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, an increase of 10% over the prior year in both 2021 and 2020. In December 2021, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.94 per share of common stock for the first quarter of 2022, an increase of 10% for this period, to be paid in March 2022. We also returned capital to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During 2021, we repurchased and had cash settlements of $5.0 billion of common stock. In 2020, we repurchased and had cash settlements of $3.5 billion of common stock. In 2019, we repurchased $7.6 billion of common stock and had cash settlements of $7.7 billion. In March 2021, October 2021 and December 2021, the Board of Directors increased the amount authorized under our stock repurchase program by $3.4 billion, $4.5 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, $10.9 billion remained available under the stock repurchase program. As a result of stock repurchases and quarterly dividend payments, we have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Our accumulated deficit is not anticipated to affect our future ability to operate, repurchase stock, pay dividends or repay our debt given our expected continued profitability and strong financial position. We believe that existing funds, cash generated from operations and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our needs for working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock, and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. We anticipate that our liquidity needs can be met through a variety of sources, including cash provided by operating activities, sales of marketable securities, borrowings through commercial paper and/or syndicated credit facilities, and access to other domestic and foreign debt markets and equity markets. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors- Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business . 66   Financing arrangements To help meet our liquidity requirements, we have entered into various financing arrangements. The noncurrent portions of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, were $33.2 billion and $32.9 billion, respectively. The carrying values of our long-term borrowings are net of fair value adjustments for interest rate swaps and unamortized discounts, premiums and offering costs. As of December 31, 2021, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch assigned credit ratings to our outstanding senior notes of A– with a stable outlook, Baa1 with a stable outlook and BBB+ with a stable outlook, respectively, which are considered investment grade. Unfavorable changes to these ratings may have an adverse impact on future financings. During 2021 and 2020, we issued debt with aggregate principal amounts of $5.0 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively. During 2019, we did not issue any debt or debt securities. During 2021, 2020 and 2019, we repaid/redeemed debt of $4.2 billion, $6.5 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively. In addition, during 2020, we exchanged $0.7 billion of certain of our outstanding note issuances with $0.9 billion of newly issued notes with a lower interest rate and later maturity date. To achieve a desired mix of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts that effectively converted a fixed-rate interest coupon for certain of our debt issuances to a floating, LIBOR-based coupon over the lives of the respective notes. These interest rate swap contracts qualify and are designated as fair value hedges. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had interest rate swap contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $6.7 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively. To hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of our long-term notes denominated in foreign currencies, we entered into cross-currency swap contracts, which effectively convert the interest payments and principal repayment of the respective notes from euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs to U.S. dollars. These cross-currency swap contracts qualify and are designated as cash flow hedges. As of both December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had cross-currency swap contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $3.4 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, we had a commercial paper program that allows us to issue up to $2.5 billion of unsecured commercial paper to fund our working-capital needs. During 2021, 2020 and 2019, we did not issue any commercial paper. No commercial paper was outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. In 2019, we amended and restated our $2.5 billion syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit agreement, which is available for general corporate purposes or as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program. The commitments under the revolving credit agreement may be increased by up to $750 million with the agreement of the banks. Each bank that is a party to the agreement has an initial commitment term of five years. This term may be extended for up to two additional one-year periods with the agreement of the banks. Annual commitment fees for this agreement are 0.09% of the unused portion of the facility based on our current credit rating. Generally, we would be charged interest for any amounts borrowed under this facility, based on our current credit rating, at (i) LIBOR plus 1% or (ii) the highest of (A) the syndication agent bank base commercial lending rate, (B) the overnight federal funds rate plus 0.50% or (C) one-month LIBOR plus 1%. The agreement contains provisions related to the determination of successor rates to address the possible phaseout or unavailability of designated reference rates. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, no amounts were outstanding under this facility. It is anticipated that the U.S. dollar LIBOR rate will be phased out and replaced by 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to help ensure a successful transition from U.S. dollar LIBOR to a more robust reference rate, recommends SOFR as the U.S. dollar LIBOR alternative. As such, we expect SOFR to become widely adopted by market participants. We do not expect this change to have a material impact on our financial statements. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors- Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. In February 2020, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC that allows us to issue unspecified amounts of debt securities; common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depositary shares; rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities purchase contracts; securities purchase units; and depositary shares. Under this shelf registration statement, all of the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. This shelf registration statement expires in February 2023. Certain of our financing arrangements contain nonfinancial covenants. In addition, our revolving credit agreement includes a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a specified minimum interest coverage ratio of (i) the sum of consolidated net income, interest expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation expense, amortization expense, unusual or nonrecurring charges and other noncash items (Consolidated EBITDA) to (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense, each as defined and described in the credit agreement. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under these arrangements as of December 31, 2021. These financing arrangements are more fully discussed in Part IV-Note 15, Financing arrangements, and Note 18, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 67   Cash flows Our summarized cash flow activity was as follows (in millions):  Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,261 $ 10,497 $ 9,150 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 733 $ (5,401) $ 5,709 Net cash used in financing activities $ (8,271) $ (4,867) $ (15,767)  Operating Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be our primary recurring source of funds. Cash provided by operating activities decreased during 2021 primarily due to the monetization of interest rate swaps that occurred in 2020 and the timing of payments for sales incentives and discounts. Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2020 primarily due to higher Net income after adding back the noncash amortization related to the acquisition of Otezla, the monetization of interest rate swap contracts and working-capital adjustments. Investing Cash provided by investing activities during 2021 was primarily due to net cash inflows related to marketable securities of $4.3 billion, partially offset by cash used in the acquisitions of Teneobio and Five Prime of $2.5 billion. Cash used in investing activities during 2020 was primarily due to our $3.2 billion of purchases of equity method investments, primarily BeiGene, and net cash outflows related to marketable securities of $1.5 billion. Cash provided by investing activities during 2019 was primarily due to net cash inflows related to marketable securities of $20.0 billion which occurred primarily to fund our acquisition of Otezla and investment in BeiGene. Capital expenditures were $880 million, $608 million and $618 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We currently estimate 2022 spending on capital projects to be approximately $950 million. A majority of the increase in expenditures relates to expansion of manufacturing capacity to enable supply of products and product candidates. Financing Cash used in financing activities during 2021 was primarily due to payments to repurchase our common stock of $5.0 billion and the payment of dividends of $4.0 billion, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of debt, net of repayments of $0.8 billion. Cash used in financing activities during 2020 was primarily due to the payment of dividends of $3.8 billion and payments to repurchase our common stock of $3.5 billion, partially offset by proceeds from issuance of debt, net of repayments of $2.5 billion. Cash used in financing activities during 2019 was primarily due to payments to repurchase our common stock of $7.7 billion, repayment of debt of $4.5 billion and payments of dividends of $3.5 billion. See Part IV-Note 9, Investments; Note 15, Financing arrangements; and Note 16, Stockholders’ equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital requirements We have material cash requirements to pay third parties under various contractual obligations discussed below. We are obligated to pay interest and repay principal under our various financing arrangements, including amounts under interest rate swap and cross-currency swap contracts related to certain of our long-term debt obligations. For information on scheduled debt maturities and payments under derivative contracts associated with our long-term debt obligations, see Part IV-Note 15, Financing arrangements, and Note 18, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are obligated to make payments for operating leases, including rental commitments on abandoned leases and leases that have not yet commenced. For information on these obligations, see Part IV-Note 13, Leases, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under the 2017 Tax Act, we elected to pay in eight annual installments the repatriation tax related primarily to prior indefinitely invested earnings of our foreign operations. For information on the remaining scheduled repatriation tax installments, see Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments-Commitments-U.S. Repatriation tax, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 68   We have purchase obligations of $3.2 billion primarily related to (i) R&D commitments (including those related to clinical trials) for new and existing products, (ii) capital expenditures and (iii) open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Most of these obligations are expected to be paid within one year, and payment of certain of these amounts may be reduced based on certain future events. In addition to the purchase obligations noted above, we are contractually obligated to pay additional amounts that in the aggregate are significant, upon the achievement of various development, regulatory and commercial milestones for agreements we have entered into with third parties, including contingent consideration incurred in the acquisitions of Teneobio and K-A. These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, substantially all of which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurring, and any resulting cash requirements are managed through our operational budgeting processes. Except with respect to the fair value of the contingent consideration of approximately $0.3 billion, these obligations are not recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2021, the maximum amount that may be payable in the future for agreements we have entered into with third parties is $7.4 billion, including $1.6 billion of contingent consideration payments in connection with our Teneobio acquisition. We have recorded liabilities for UTBs that, because of their nature, have a high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payment and other events that extinguish these liabilities. See Part IV-Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are included in Part IV-Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies. The following are considered critical to our consolidated financial statements because they require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Product sales and sales deductions Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of a product to a customer, generally upon delivery, based on an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled, net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, discounts and other deductions (collectively, sales deductions) and returns established at the time of sale. We analyze the adequacy of our accruals for sales deductions quarterly. Amounts accrued for sales deductions are adjusted when trends or significant events indicate that adjustment is appropriate. Accruals are also adjusted to reflect actual results. Amounts recorded in Accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for sales deductions were as follows (in millions):  Rebates Chargebacks Other deductions Total Balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 2,589 $ 454 $ 127 $ 3,170 Amounts charged against product sales 6,825 7,090 1,292 15,207 Payments (6,249) (6,985) (1,263) (14,497) Balance as of December 31, 2019 3,165 559 156 3,880 Amounts charged against product sales 9,167 8,223 1,818 19,208 Payments (8,353) (8,191) (1,735) (18,279) Balance as of December 31, 2020 3,979 591 239 4,809 Amounts charged against product sales 10,195 9,619 2,065 21,879 Payments (10,027) (9,413) (2,074) (21,514) Balance as of December 31, 2021 $ 4,147 $ 797 $ 230 $ 5,174  For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, total sales deductions were 47%, 44% and 41% of gross product sales, respectively. The increase in the total sales deductions balance as of December 31, 2021, compared with December 31, 2020, was primarily driven by the impact of higher U.S. chargeback and commercial rebate discount rates and an increase in gross sales, partially offset by timing of payments. Included in the amounts are immaterial net adjustments related to prior-year sales due to changes in estimates. 69   In the United States, we use wholesalers as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. Products we sell in Europe are distributed principally to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending on the distribution practice in each country where the products are sold. We monitor the inventory levels of our products at our wholesalers by using data from our wholesalers and other third parties, and we believe wholesaler inventories have been maintained at appropriate levels (generally two to three weeks) given end-user demand. Accordingly, historical fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels have not significantly affected our method of estimating sales deductions and returns. Accruals for sales deductions are based primarily on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These estimates take into consideration current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, internal and external historical data and forecasted customer buying patterns. Sales deductions are substantially product specific and therefore, for any given year, can be affected by the mix of products sold. Rebates include primarily amounts paid to payers and providers in the United States, including those paid to state Medicaid programs, and are based on contractual arrangements or statutory requirements that vary by product, by payer and by individual payer plans. As we sell products, we estimate the amount of rebate we will pay based on the product sold, contractual terms, estimated patient population, historical experience and wholesaler inventory levels; and we accrue these rebates in the period the related sales are recorded. We then adjust the rebate accruals as more information becomes available and to reflect actual claims experience. Estimating such rebates is complicated, in part because of the time delay between the date of sale and the actual settlement of the liability. We believe the methodology we use to accrue for rebates is reasonable and appropriate given current facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ. Wholesaler chargebacks relate to our contractual agreements to sell products to healthcare providers in the United States at fixed prices that are lower than the prices we charge wholesalers. When healthcare providers purchase our products through wholesalers at these reduced prices, wholesalers charge us for the difference between their purchase prices and the contractual prices between Amgen and the healthcare providers. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sales by our wholesaler customers to healthcare providers. Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks are less difficult to estimate than rebates are, and they closely approximate actual results because chargeback amounts are fixed at the date of purchase by the healthcare providers and because we generally settle the liability for these deductions within a few weeks. Product returns Returns are estimated by comparison of historical return data to their related sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each product, when appropriate. In each of the past three years, sales return provisions have amounted to less than 1% of gross product sales. Changes in estimates for prior-year sales return provisions have historically been immaterial. Income taxes We provide for income taxes based on pretax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the tax authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements for a particular tax position is measured based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. The amount of UTBs is adjusted as appropriate for changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, new regulations or interpretations by tax authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination or resolution of an examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient for any assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, when appropriate, related to UTBs in income tax expense. Certain items are included in our tax return at different times than they are reflected in the financial statements, and they cause temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Such temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are generally items that can be used as tax deductions or credits in tax returns in future years but for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in the consolidated financial statements. We establish valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities are either (i) tax expenses recognized in the consolidated financial statements for which payment has been deferred, (ii) expenses for which we have already taken a deduction on the tax return but have not yet recognized in the consolidated financial statements or (iii) liabilities for the difference between the book basis and the tax basis of the intangible assets acquired in many business combinations, because future expenses associated with these assets most often will not be tax deductible. 70   We are a vertically integrated enterprise with operations in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. In the jurisdictions where we conduct operations, we are subject to income tax based on the tax laws and principles of such jurisdictions and on the functions, risks and activities performed therein. Our pretax income is therefore attributed to domestic or foreign sources based on the operations performed and risks assumed in each location and the tax laws and principles of the respective taxing jurisdictions. For example, we conduct significant operations in Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States that is treated as a foreign jurisdiction for U.S. tax purposes, pertaining to manufacturing, distribution and other related functions to meet our worldwide product demand. Income from our operations in Puerto Rico is subject to tax incentive grants through 2035. In 2017, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest two duplicate Notices for 2010, 2011 and 2012 that we received in May and July 2021, which seek to increase our U.S. taxable income. The Notices seek to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $3.6 billion plus interest. Any additional tax that could be imposed would be reduced by up to approximately $900 million of repatriation tax previously accrued on our foreign earnings. We firmly believe that the IRS’s positions set forth in the Notices are without merit, and we are contesting the Notices through the judicial process. In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and that are similar to those proposed for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office. We were unable to reach resolution at the administrative appeals level, and we anticipate that we will receive a statutory notice of deficiency for these years as well. We expect to contest any such notice related to 2013–15 through the judicial process. We are also currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 and by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex matters is not li kely within the next 12 months. We believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors- The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability; 7. MD&A-Income Taxes; and Part IV-Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Our operations are subject to the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices of the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, U.S. state jurisdictions and other countries in which we do business. Significant changes in these rules could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors- The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability . Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, government investigations and other matters such as intellectual property disputes, contractual disputes and class action suits that are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. We describe our legal proceedings and other matters that are significant or that we believe could become significant in Part IV-Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We record accruals for loss contingencies to the extent that we conclude it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the related loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, on a quarterly basis, developments in legal proceedings and other matters that could cause an increase or decrease in the amount of the liability that has been accrued previously. While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the eventual outcomes of these items, an adverse determination in one or more of these items currently pending could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 71   Valuation of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions We have acquired and continue to acquire intangible assets in connection with business combinations and asset acquisitions. These intangible assets consist primarily of technology associated with currently marketed human therapeutic products and IPR&D product candidates. Discounted cash flow models are typically used to determine the fair values of these intangible assets for purposes of allocating consideration paid to the net assets acquired in an acquisition. See Part IV-Note 2, Acquisitions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including but not limited to: • determining the timing and expected costs to complete in-process projects, taking into account the stage of completion at the acquisition date; • projecting the probability and timing of obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for product candidates; • estimating the timing of and future net cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in-process projects; and • developing appropriate discount rates to calculate the present values of the cash flows. Significant estimates and assumptions are also required to determine the business combination date fair values of any contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with business combinations. In addition, we must revalue these obligations each subsequent reporting period until the related contingencies are resolved and record changes in their fair values in earnings. The acquisition date fair values of contingent consideration obligations incurred or assumed in the acquisitions were determined using a combination of valuation techniques. Significant estimates and assumptions required for these valuations included but were not limited to the timing and probability of achieving regulatory milestones, product sales projections under various scenarios and discount rates used to calculate the present value of the required payments. These estimates and assumptions are required to be updated in order to revalue these contingent consideration obligations each reporting period. Accordingly, subsequent changes in underlying facts and circumstances could result in changes in these estimates and assumptions, which could have a material impact on the estimated future fair values of these obligations. We believe the fair values used to record intangible assets acquired and contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with business combinations and asset acquisitions are based on reasonable estimates and assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related valuation dates. Impairment of long-lived assets We review the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment and our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows to be generated by the long-lived asset is compared with the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, composed of IPR&D projects acquired in a business combination that have not reached technological feasibility or that lack regulatory approval at the time of acquisition, are reviewed for impairment annually, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and upon establishment of technological feasibility or regulatory approval. We determine impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the asset’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference, and its carrying value is reduced accordingly. Estimating future cash flows of an IPR&D product candidate for purposes of an impairment analysis requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the amount and timing of costs to complete the project and the amount, timing and probability of achieving revenues from the completed product similar to how the acquisition date fair value of the project was determined, as described above. There are often major risks and uncertainties associated with IPR&D projects as we are required to obtain regulatory approvals in order to be able to market these products. Such approvals require completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value of the acquired IPR&D project may vary from its fair value at the date of acquisition, and IPR&D impairment charges may occur in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe our estimations of future cash flows used for assessing impairment of long-lived assets are based on reasonable assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related dates of the assessments. 72   Impairment of equity method investments We review the carrying value of our equity method investments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an investment may not be recoverable. We record impairment losses on our equity method investments if we deem the impairment to be other-than-temporary. We deem an impairment to be other-than-temporary based on various factors, including but not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the fair value is below the carrying value, volatility of the security price, the financial condition of the issuer, changes in technology that may impair the earnings potential of the investment and our intent and ability to retain the investment to allow for a recovery in fair value. We believe our judgments used in assessing impairment of equity method investments are based on reasonable assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related dates of the assessments. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Part IV-Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of December 31, 2021.   